
Adam is a version of the biblical Adam in the Marvel Comics universe.
The character, created by Jerry Robinson, first appeared in Bible Tales for Young Folk #1.
Adam was the very first human created by God (Yahweh) and similar to the source, he along with Eve were tricked into eating the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil and were expelled from Eden. Because of this guilt, Adam was ashamed and driven to madness and vowed that he would eradicate the sins from mankind, even at the cost of them becoming mindless drones. He took in orphaned children and trained them inside a Nicaraguan temple to be the host of the Ghost Rider.During the Fear Itself storyline where the Serpent was freed, Adam saw this as a sign and offered to Johnny Blaze to remove the curse of Ghost Rider off him. After taking the curse off Blaze, he made one of his students, Alejandra Jones, the new Ghost Rider. He then demanded that Alejandra remove the sins of the students, but she refused, so instead he turned her powers into a bomb that after it went off turned everyone in the range into mindless shells of what they once were, except Johnny who had been informed by Mephisto about Adam's plans. After that, Adam took Alejandra into space via a space shuttle in order to use the space station's equipment in order to magnify Alejandra's powers and remove all sin from Earth. However, Johnny succeeded in saving Alejandra, which resulted in an explosion which seemingly took Adam's life.He turned up alive and ordered Steel Wind and Steel Vengeance to bring Alejandra to him, but failed again. Alejandra then approached Adam and demanded him into giving her more power in order for her to fight Mephisto, in which he agreed.
Adam's powers and abilitiesAdam being the first ever human, is considered a very powerful being. He possesses immortality as he didn't age through the countless years since his creation and was able to survive an explosion and reentering the atmosphere, can enhance the powers of other beings and had also shown to be able to teletransport.


