Ajak

Ajak is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. First appearing in The Eternals #2 (August 1976), he was created by Jack Kirby. The character is usually depicted as a member of the Eternals, a human offshoot race in the Marvel Universe, and as a member of the God Squad, as both a superhero and supervillain.
In July 2019, it was announced that Salma Hayek would be portraying a female Ajak in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, debuting in Eternals (2021).


== Publication history ==
Ajak first appeared in The Eternals #2 (August 1976), and was created by Jack Kirby. Ajak made subsequent appearances in the series, in issues #3-4 (September–October 1976), #7 (January 1977), and #12 (June 1977).
The character subsequently appears in Thor Annual #7 (1978) (in flashback, as Ajax), Thor vol. 1 #284 (June 1979), 291 (January 1980), 300-301 (October–November 1980), Contest of Champions vol. 1 #1 (June 1982), Iron Man Annual #6 (1983), Avengers vol. 1 #248 (October 1984), Eternals: Herod Factor (November 1991), Avengers vol. 1 #361 (April 1993), and Starblast #1 (January 1994).
The character did not appear again for some time, but Ajak briefly appeared in the Marvel mini-series Eternals, written by Neil Gaiman, in Eternals #5-7 (December 2006, January 2007, March 2007). He also made an appearance in Incredible Hercules #117-120 (July–August 2008).
Ajak received an entry in the original Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe #1, and in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Master Edition #10.


== Fictional character biography ==
Ajak is a member of the sub-race of Eternals known as the Polar Eternals, born in the area of Polaria, Siberia to parents Raka and Amaa, with a brother named Arex, both as adults being archeologists with advanced knowledge of archeology.
Ajak fought Warlord Kro's Deviant forces in Babylon 2500 years ago, also maintaining a strong presence in Central America, where they were both worshipped as gods; Ajak by Aztecs as the god Quetzalcoatl and by the Incas as Tecumotzin, Lord of Flight. Ajak once met the Norse god Thor, and fought alongside him against Dromedan. During the Third Host of the Celestials, Ajak acted as a liaison between the Celestials and Earth and was present in Peru when they arrived. With Zuras, Ajak arranged the flight plan the Celestials used to leave Earth, before both placed themselves into storage as atoms within the City of the Space Gods, to await their eventual return.Under Zuras' order, Ikaris awoke Ajak when the Fourth Host of the Celestials arrived.  Ajak befriended human archaeologist Dr. Daniel Damian, and let him live in the City of the Space Gods. Ajak was sealed with Doctor Damian behind the force barrier surrounding the site of the Fourth Host's arrival. Ajak was attacked by agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., who were converted to stored atoms by the Celestials after their failed escape attempt, and was known for battling an Incan wrestler.Ajak then had another encounter with Thor at the Fourth Host site in Peru. This time Ajak opposed him, but Thor won their battle. Ultimately, Ajak battled Zeus on the behalf of his fellow Eternals, who merely saw the Eternals as the Celestials' pawns. He was later among the Eternals captured by Brother Tode, who were later set free by Iron Man (James Rhodes). Ajak joined the space-faring Eternals Uni-Mind, later returning to Earth. A maddened Dr. Damian transformed Ajak into a monster through the use of Celestial technology, sending them to kill Thena and Kro's twin children, Donald & Deborah Ritter. The monstrous Ajak killed many sets of twins along the way. After the Eternals restored Ajak to their true form, suddenly grief-stricken with the deeds that committed as a monster, Ajak committed suicide, additionally disintegrating Dr. Damian himself.Sprite states that sometime later he used the machineries of Olympia to partially "reactivate" Ajak and Zuras — and then deceived them into visiting the tomb of the Dreaming Celestial, forming a Uni-Mind there. This provided Sprite with the power needed to rewrite some aspects of reality, stripping the other Eternals of their powers and memories and removing all records of them from the world. Sprite also stated that Ajak is the only Eternal able to directly speak with the Celestials. Ajak appeared, seemingly in a normal state, and revived Zuras to their own normal state.


=== "Secret Invasion" ===
In the 2008 "Secret Invasion" storyline, Ajak leaves to join Hercules' "God Squad" to battle the Skrull gods, not only to defend Earth, but, to gain a greater understanding of the Skrulls, in light of their being Deviants whose native people were also transformed by the Celestials, and to acquire a means to communicate with the Dreaming Celestial, whom only Makkari can communicate with.  Thinking Hercules to be a bad leader, Ajak takes command of the God Squad from him just before they battle the Skrull Gods, causing Snowbird's death due to a lack of planning. Ajak is subsequently killed in the confrontation with the Skrull God Kly'bn.


=== Post-"Secret Invasion" ===
Later, a revived Ajak and the other Eternals, continues the mission of awakening Eternals who no longer remember who they are and are living human lives, thanks to Sprite. During this time Ajak breeds resentment towards Makkari for being the Dreaming Celestial's chosen communicator, warning the other Eternals that the Dreaming Celestial is broken. While Ikaris and Druig's opposing forces race to awaken and convert as many "sleeping" Eternals as they can to their respective sides, Ajak locates the Eternal known as Gilgamesh, "The Forgotten One", in Peru, manipulating them into believing Ikaris' Eternals are actually Deviants. Ajak does not do this out of loyalty to Druig, but out of resentment towards Makkari. Gilgamesh ends up brutally killing Makkari, which Druig and Legba witness. Ajak then goes to Makkari's side and signals Sersi, telling her that it was Druig and his forces that killed Makkari. Ajak then continues to monitor the Dreaming Celestial while Ikaris and Druig's forces go to battle.Sometime during these events, Ajak helps the Eternals battle the Young Gods, who have returned from the Celestial's ship. Ajak mainly watches the battle from Olympia, reveling in the Young Gods' defeat of Makkari, but when Makkari is about to be killed, Ajak chooses to intervene, believing even an Eternal such as Makkari deserves better than death at the hands of "these blasphemers." It is assumed Ajak has gone back to monitoring the Dreaming Celestial.


=== Death ===
Later when the Celestials' Final Host arrived on Earth, Ajak along with all the Eternals killed themselves after realizing the true purpose for which they were created.


== Powers and abilities ==
Ajak possesses the standard Eternal abilities of cosmic energy manipulation and complete control of one's own cellular makeup. The physical control granted gives Eternals an indefinitely prolonged lifespan and cellular regeneration along with superhuman strength and durability, in addition to cosmic powers granting them flight, teleportation and the ability to fire energy bolts.It was revealed in Gaiman's miniseries Eternals that Ajak possesses the ability to directly communicate with the Celestials when they are nearby.


== In other media ==
Ajak appears in Marvel Knights: Eternals, voiced by Kirby Morrow.Ajak will be portrayed by Salma Hayek in the 2021 film The Eternals.


== References ==


== External links ==
Ajak at the Marvel Universe wiki
Ajak at MarvelDirectory.com
Sersi's Loft's entry on Ajak (Archived 2009-10-24)