
Bakuto is a fictional ninja in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Andy Diggle, Antony Johnston and Marco Checchetto, first appeared in Daredevil #505 (April 2010).
Bakuto, the head Daimyo of South America, met with the other four Daimyos in Jigoku-Chu Castle in Japan. He showed some doubt in Matt Murdock leading The Hand and especially scoffed at White Tiger's involvement due to her being a woman. Beforehand, Bakuto had killed his master, Izanagi, to showcase "[his] strength of will", even going so far as to not allowing him seppuku.
In the present, while having dinner, Bakuto's food is spiked causing him to hallucinate demons. Matt goes to check on him as Daredevil and are both immediately attacked by ninjas that were secretly sent by the other Daimyos. After defeating them, Matt is led to believe that someone is attempting to take Bakuto's life and ups the security. Despite this Bakuto believes that Matt was the one who sent the ninjas and begins plotting to kill him. He is later confronted by a possessed White Tiger and killed in sword combat.


=== Bakuto in other media ===
Bakuto appeared in Iron Fist, portrayed by Ramón Rodríguez. Bakuto is one of the leaders of The Hand and is Colleen Wing's sensei from before the events of the series. Bakuto at first appears to be a benevolent person, aiding Danny Rand in his abilities and showing him footage of the previous Iron Fist, but soon it becomes apparent that he wishes to use Danny for his own purposes and especially has plans for the Meachums. After shooting Joy Meachum, he and his men take Danny, but end up fighting him along with Colleen and Davos. Bakuto battles Colleen with swords, but he is stabbed by his former pupil. Colleen refuses to kill Bakuto, so Davos does it for her. His body then disappears. Colleen assumes that Bakuto's people took it, but Danny recalls that Harold Meachum managed to come back from the dead.
Bakuto reappeared in The Defenders, revived to full health. He is established to be one of the five Fingers of the Hand, the others being Sowande, Madame Gao, Alexandra, and Murakami. He first appears when he accosts Colleen, Danny and Luke as they are escorting Claire to the 29th Precinct for protective custody, but escapes. He is later present, along with Murakami and Madame Gao, when Elektra kills Alexandra and assumes command of the Hand. The three Fingers express disdain with Elektra for her actions, but she is undeterred, only interested in cultivating the substance so she can have eternal immortality. Nonetheless, the Fingers accost Matt, Luke and Jessica when they break out of the precinct and return to Midland Circle seeking to rescue Danny from Elektra. Bakuto comes very close to finishing off Matt until Colleen shows up to fight him off. Bakuto remains upstairs to fight Colleen, Claire and Misty. Regaining the upper hand, Colleen kills Bakuto, but not before he manages to cut off part of Misty's right arm.


