
The Blood Spider (Michael Bingham) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #367 (October 1992), created by writer David Michelinie and artist Jerry Bingham.
Blood Spider is a mercenary trained by Taskmaster under contract by the Red Skull to create a team of mercenaries who would be capable of defeating Spider-Man. The trio were patterned after the superheroes Captain America, Hawkeye and Spider-Man, and the characters were called Death-Shield, Jagged Bow and Blood Spider.Solo joined the fray on the side of the wall-crawler and helps to defeat the three villains and thwart Red Skull's machinations who was using the mercenaries to guard private files sought by Spider-Man in reference to his parents.Years later, Blood Spider appears with Death-Shield and Jagged Bow among the criminals vying for the multi-million dollar bounty that was placed on Agent Venom's head by Lord Ogre. The trio's attempt on Agent Venom's life is interrupted by competing mercenaries Constrictor and Lord Deathstrike.Crime Master, with the help of Blood Spider, Death-Shield and Jagged Bow, later tries to steal a damaged Rigellian Recorder from Deadpool and the Mercs for Money.Of the trio, Blood Spider was the only character who displayed any superhuman abilities.  He was able to shatter a solid concrete wall with a very powerful move, indicating he possessed some degree of superhuman strength. He was not as powerful as Spider-Man, and not nearly as fast. He carried a back pack and wrist devices capable of shooting webbing similar to that of Spider-Man, but much weaker. An ordinary human in peak physical condition, such as Solo, was able to tear through it, which would not have been possible with Spider-Man's webbing. Blood Spider's costume has several design elements that Bagley would later incorporate into the redesign of Ben Reilly's Spider-Man costume. The most prominent of the traits is the use of a larger, symmetrical spider emblem on the front and back, the legs of which meet on the shoulders.


=== Blood Spider in other media ===


==== Television ====
A variation of Blood Spider appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Benjamin Diskin. This version is an alternate universe counterpart of Spider-Man from a universe where vampires led by the Lizard King have taken over most of Earth. In "Return to the Spider-Verse" [Part 1], he teams up with Spider-Man and Kid Arachnid to search for the Siege Perilous' shards and free the humans, including his teammates, from Lizard King's control. While the Spider-Men proceed to cure all those infected and defeat Lizard King, Blood Spider is attacked by Wolf Spider, who steals the shard they found. Blood Spider returns in "Return to the Spider-Verse" [Part 4], having been taken captive by Wolf Spider so the villain could drain his essence alongside other Spider doppelgangers. After being saved by Spider-Man, Blood Spider returns to his dimension.


==== Video games ====
Blood Spider appears as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.


==== Novels ====
A variation of Blood Spider appears in Spider-Man: Hostile Takeover, a prequel novel to the 2018 video game Spider-Man. He is recruited off the streets to undergo experiments in a lab run by Norman Osborn, which exacerbate his preexisting mental health issues. Afterwards, he comes to believe that he is the real Spider-Man and that Peter Parker is an imposter. Under his own Spider-Man persona, he shows no interest in protecting and saving lives, stating he is the true Spider-Man as he is willing to kill whereas Peter will not. This disregard for human life causes the public to turn against Spider-Man, though a large number of people cite obvious differences. Eventually, Peter is able to draw the imposter into a public confrontation and prove his innocence. Subsequently, Blood Spider is defeated and incarcerated.


