
Broo is a fictional character from Marvel Comics. He is a mutant from the Brood extraterrestrial race, but unlike his feral brethren he is intelligent and compassionate. Broo was born in the lab on a S.W.O.R.D. orbital research station called Pandora's Box. He joined the X-Men as a student in Wolverine & the X-Men #1.
He has been the object of bullying because of his odd behavior; however he does not seem to understand teasing and even takes it as a compliment. He has developed a relationship with Idie, and was at the top in his class behind Quentin Quire.
Kid Omega, who wanted to prove himself to Broo, Idie and Kid Gladiator who told him they never heard of him, reasoned with Krakoa who then joined Wolverine's X-Men.After discovering a robot placed there by the Hellfire Club in order to manipulate Oya, Kade Kilgore and Max Frankenstein tell Broo about their plans, but he is shot and left for dead before he can tell anyone else. Beast saves his life with assistance by Brand, Peter Parker, Reed Richards and Tony Stark. Broo was treated and put into a coma, and once he awoke, he had reverted to his feral brood instincts and acted like that of an animal. He spent some time as an unwilling student in Kade Killgore's Hellfire Academy mutant school. Idie comes with him for supervision, and Quentin Quire comes to rescue them both. Quire advances the theory that Idie has fallen in love with Broo pre-trauma.Broo was often seen attacking fellow students and support staff at Killgore's school, random, brutal violence being fully supported and encouraged by the teachers. He was kidnapped by the genocidal alien Xanto Starblood, who was going to teach Broo the hard sciences and feed him unique beings. While on Xanto's ship, Broo bit a Bamf and was healed, restoring his self-aware, intelligent, and compassionate self, and the staff returned him to the school.During the Battle of the Atom, Broo babysat Shogo Lee.Broo later appears as a member of the Agents of Wakanda.Broo is a Brood mutant because he can feel compassion and has high intelligence. Like the rest of the Brood, Broo has several powers, including enhanced strength, enhanced speed, enhanced agility, ability to breathe in space, and insect wings that allow him to fly. His increased intelligence has resulted in funding for his beloved school; Broo has developed a line of pastries that cause the consumer to lose weight.


