
Bullet/Buck Cashman is a character in Marvel Comics. He first appeared in Daredevil #250 (January 1988) created by Ann Nocenti and John Romita Jr.
Bullet is an agent to the Unites States government who performs covert activities of an unrevealed nature and who has the highest level security clearance such an agent can hold. He is in charge of his young son Lance, who was obsessed with an imminent World War III - however, Bullet was rarely at home, leaving his son alone; indeed, Bullet's permanent address is different to Lance's, although Lance frequently lies to alibi his father. Lance's mother Gloria rarely accepts her responsibilities to stay with Lance, much to Bullet's chagrin.
Bullet was assigned by a United States Army general on behalf of Wilson Fisk, the Kingpin of Crime, to participate in a scheme against the environmental protection organization, Save the Planet. Bullet was to allow another man to bomb the organization's headquarter in terrorist fashion, and then to arrest the supposed terrorist himself. The saboteur would then be released through legal maneuvering.
However, Matthew Murdock, who is secretly the costumed crimefighter Daredevil, captured the saboteur himself. (Murdock was not in his costumed identity at the time.) Murdock then encountered Bullet, who said he would see to it that the saboteur went to jail. Through his superhuman senses, Murdock realized that Bullet was lying, and Murdock and Bullet fought each other, but Murdock finally lets Bullet take the saboteur into custody.
Soon after Bullet killed a man in toxic waste, framing the environmentalists for the murder. Murdock, as Daredevil, accused Bullet of committing the murder, and the two fought. (Bullet realized that Daredevil was the man who fought him previously but does not know Daredevil's true identity.) When the police arrived at the scene, Bullet confessed to the murder and was taken into custody but after Bullet made a single phone call, all charges against him were dropped and he was released.
Since then, Bullet joined criminals recruited by the assassin Typhoid in an attack on Daredevil that nearly killed the crimefighter. Daredevil decided to get revenge on Bullet; to do so, he tracked Bullet's son and helped him against some bullies, earning Lance's trust. Lance then invited Daredevil to his home and convinced him to not fight Bullet. Bullet entered unannounced and, misunderstanding the scene to believe that Daredevil was threatening Lance, attacked Daredevil. Lance stopped their fight to explain it all. Bullet admitted that he liked Daredevil, having attacked him only because he had been hired to do so. Daredevil decided that tracking Bullet had been useless and left. 


