Burglar (comics)

The Burglar is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was left unnamed in most of his appearances. He is best known as the first criminal faced by Spider-Man, and as the killer of the hero's uncle and surrogate father figure, Ben Parker. The Burglar first appeared in Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962), and has since been featured in all versions of Spider-Man's origin story.
The character has been substantially adapted from the comics into various forms of media, including films, television series and video games. He was portrayed by Michael Papajohn in Sam Raimi's Spider-Man trilogy, and by Leif Gantvoort in the 2012 film, The Amazing Spider-Man.


== Name ==


=== In comics ===
The Burglar's name remains unrevealed in the comics. He was completely unnamed in Amazing Fantasy #15, and it was only in 1996, 15 years after his second and final appearance in the comics, and the introduction of his estranged daughter Jessica, that the possibility arose that he might share her last name of Carradine. However, it remains unconfirmed whether this is the Burglar's surname, as his daughter may be using her mother's maiden name, or that of her adoptive parents. In addition, the Burglar happens to have a nephew named Jimmy Costas, in which Jimmy wears hand-me-downs from his uncle, and even said that his "Uncle" may have run into Spider-Man once or twice, which shocked Spider-Man when he found out.
In the Ultimate Spider-Man series, the name Carradine appeared in a list of known cat burglars, although it is never identified as the Burglar's last name or being connected to him in any way.


=== In other media ===
Throughout most of his appearances in various Spider-Man animated series, the Burglar's real name is not revealed. In The Spectacular Spider-Man cartoon, the character's identity is Walter Hardy, and he is an amalgam between Hardy and the classic Burglar from the comics.
In the Spider-Man film trilogy, the Burglar's real name (originally credited as the "Carjacker" in the 2002 film) is Dennis Carradine, as revealed in Spider-Man 3. However, in this version, the Burglar is not Ben Parker's killer, and was Flint Marko's partner, who actually killed Ben by accident. In the The Amazing Spider-Man film, the Burglar's name is never revealed, and he is credited as "Cash Register Thief."
In his appearance in the 2002 Spider-Man video game based on the film, the Burglar's name is not revealed, and he is depicted as the leader of the Skulls gang, who calls himself "Spike." In The Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game, set in a different continuity from the film, the Burglar's name is again Dennis Carradine.


== Publication history ==
The Burglar first appeared in Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962).
Following the Burglar's first one-off appearance, there have been multiple successors to the Burglar identity. In Marvel Comics Presents #49-50 (May 1990), Spider-Man battles a man who is explicitly described as having the same attire as the burglar who shot Uncle Ben. At one point the man cryptically states, "I owe [Spider-Man] for what he did to my brother." In Spider-Man #26 (September 1992), Spider-Man encounters another man in the Burglar's attire, minus the pistol. It is heavily implied that this Burglar's maternal uncle was the original Burglar.


== Fictional character biography ==

Little of the Burglar's early history is known, but it is mentioned that even in his younger years he was a criminal. Caught at some point in his life, the Burglar became the cellmate of an elderly gangster named Dutch Mallone. The Burglar learned from Dutch, who talked in his sleep, about a large possession of money the aged gangster had hidden in a suburban home, which the Burglar planned and schemed to get (ironically as Peter Parker's Uncle Ben and Aunt May since have accidentally discovered, the possession had since been devoured by silverfish).Wanting to find out the location of the home where Mallone's possession was, the Burglar successfully robs a television station for information. Peter Parker, who has become a minor celebrity as Spider-Man, did not bother to stop him despite having the opportunity to do so. Learning that the house where Mallone's money had been hidden was the Parker house, the Burglar breaks into it searching for the money, killing Peter's uncle Ben Parker when he surprised the Burglar. Fleeing the scene, the Burglar is chased by police to an abandoned warehouse. A police officer outside Peter Parker's house told Peter Parker what happened and that his Aunt May is with a neighbor next door. Upon being told where the Burglar is, Spider-Man heads to the abandoned warehouse. Wanting to avenge the death of his Uncle Ben, Spider-Man attacks and knocks out the Burglar. It is then that Spider-Man realizes that the man is the thief he had encountered earlier at the television station. The Burglar was later left to be captured by the authorities by Spider-Man who upon realizing that he could have prevented Ben's death by simple humanitarian behavior in the earlier encounter decided to use his powers more responsibly, never again ignoring a crime if he could help it.Years later, the Burglar has served his time and is released from prison despite being deemed mentally unstable by psychiatrists. Still searching for Mallone's treasure, the Burglar rents the old Parker home. After tearing it apart and finding nothing, instead decides to interrogate Ben Parker's widow May Parker who now resides in a nursing home. The Burglar partners with the nursing home's owner and head doctor Ludwig Rinehart, who is actually the supervillain Mysterio. The two take May captive and fake her death. The partnership later sours and the two criminals turn on each other, with Rinehart revealing his true nature before beating and imprisoning the Burglar. Escaping Mysterio, the Burglar retreats to the warehouse where he was first captured by Spider-Man—and where he has been holding May Parker captive. Spider-Man soon tracks and confronts the Burglar to whom he reveals his true identity as Ben Parker's nephew. Believing that Spider-Man is about to kill him as revenge for murdering Ben, the Burglar suffers a fear-induced heart attack and dies.The Burglar had a daughter named Jessica Carradine, a photographer who has a brief relationship with Spider-Man's clone Ben Reilly. She believes the murder her father committed was an accident—that the gun Ben Parker was shot with was his own, which went off by accident during a fight—and that Spider-Man had murdered him to stop him from revealing the truth about his "innocence." After learning that Ben Reilly is Spider-Man, she first threatens to expose him with a photograph she took of him unmasked. Having witnessed Ben risk his life to save innocent people in a burning skyscraper, Jessica decides against it and gives him the photograph. She later visits Ben Parker's grave to apologize for her previous poor perception of him.


== Other versions ==


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
In Ultimate Spider-Man, a reimagining of the Spider-Man mythos, the origin story from Amazing Fantasy #15 is reinterpreted over the course of seven issues. Ben Parker's death at the hands of the Burglar does not occur until Ultimate Spider-Man #4. The name "Carradine" appears on a list of "known cat burglars", but nothing else is said about it; it is unclear whether Carradine is actually the burglar who killed Uncle Ben in this universe or is simply another criminal. Spider-Man has a copy of the Burglar's driver license but the name is always hidden when viewed by the readers. This was done intentionally by the artists.
The man named Carradine is also believed in Ultimate Spider-Man #8 to be a part of the Enforcers, a group working for the Kingpin.


=== What If...? ===
Various alternate versions of the Burglar appear throughout the What If...? comic line, most often in stories dealing with Spider-Man's origin being reimagined.

One issue saw Betty Brant (here Spider-Girl after she was bitten by the radioactive spider) failing to stop the burglar, retiring from her career and allowing Peter to synthetically duplicate her powers.
In an issue where Peter Parker is paralyzed by the spider-bite, he acquires the powers of Nova and returns home to visit Ben Parker just as the burglar arrives. The burglar's attempt to shoot Peter results in the bullet ricocheting off his chest and killing the burglar, prompting Peter to abandon his costume out of guilt at his role in the death, even if it is acknowledged as an accident.
One issue features Spider-Man actually stopping the burglar simply for the publicity. In this case, Spidey destroyed the life of J. Jonah Jameson by linking Frederick Foswell back to him unaware that J. Jonah Jameson had no idea of Frederick Foswell's double-life as Big Man.
One issue features Peter throwing the burglar out of a window and killing him after the burglar kills May instead. Ben takes the blame for the crime to spare his nephew.
One issue features Peter fighting the Burglar where he is accidentally killed by Spider-Man. After failing to resuscitate him, Spider-Man flees.


=== Spider-Verse ===
During the Spider-Verse, a six-armed Spider-Man and Spider-Man Noir visit a world where Peter had an allergic reaction to the spider-bite and was left in a coma. Because of this, the Burglar never killed anyone as he broke into the Parker house while Ben and May were visiting Peter in hospital.


=== Chapter One ===
In Spider-Man: Chapter One, the burglar saw Peter leaving his house wearing his costume for the first time and thought that Spider-Man was a fellow burglar after the Parker treasure as well. Confronting him, he offers a partnership with the web-spinner only to be instead punched and thrown in jail.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
The Burglar appears in the 1967 Spider-Man series, in the episode "The Origin of Spider-Man". In this version, upon confronting the Burglar, Spider-Man knocks him out and leaves him for the police.
The Burglar appears in a flashback in the 1981 Spider-Man episode "Arsenic and Aunt May". It is also shown that he has a cousin who was recently apprehended by Spider-Man and ended up sharing a cell with the Chameleon.
The Burglar reappears in the sequel to the 1981 Spider-Man series, Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends. In the episode "Along Came Spidey", he appears in a flashback depicting Spider-Man's origin story, where he robs a TV studio and kills Uncle Ben after he catches him in the act. Later, Spider-Man tracks him down to an abandoned warehouse and recognizes him, before leaving him for the police.
The Burglar appears in the Spider-Man: The Animated Series episode "The Menace of Mysterio", in a flashback that shows him robbing a wrestling arena that Spider-Man used to fight in. Spider-Man refuses to intervine in the robbing, only to later return home and find the police, who inform him that an armed man robbed killed his uncle after breaking into their house. Learning that the culprit was chased by the police to an abandoned warehouse, Spider-Man confronts him and recognizes him as the one who robbed the wrestling arena, before leaving him for the police
The Burglar appears in the opening sequence of Spider-Man Unlimited, which shows Peter letting him escape and later capturing him as Spider-Man followin Uncle Ben's death.
The Burglar appeared in a flashback in The Spectacular Spider-Man episode "Intervention" with his grunts done by Jim Cummings in the first appearance and was voiced by James Remar in the second appearance. This version is an amalgam of Walter Hardy and the Burglar. In a flashback accessed by the Venom symbiote, he is shown robbing Sullivan Edwards. Instead of stopping him, Spider-Man lets him escape in the elevator as revenge on Sullivan Edwards for not paying him. Later, Peter returns home to learn from Aunt May that a burglar broke into their house and killed Uncle Ben, before escaping in his car. Seeking revenge, Spider-Man confronts the Burglar in an warehouse and unmasks him. He recognizes him as the same man he let go earlier, and saves him when he trips and falls through a window, before leaving him for the police. In "Opening Night", the Burglar's identity as the father of the Black Cat is revealed to Spider-Man. Black Cat comes to break him out of the Vault as Spider-Man volunteers to test a maximum security cell. During the climax of the episode he explains to his daughter and Spider-Man that he never used a gun until he grew older and slower, being afraid of getting caught. He sincerely regrets taking Ben Parker's life and believes that he must pay for it, so he stays behind and releases a knockout gas to subdue the escaped inmates pursuing Spider-Man, which also knocks him unconscious, whilst Spider-Man and Black Cat escape. In the end, Hardy and the other inmates are re-incarcerated.
The Burglar appears in flashbacks in the Ultimate Spider-Man episodes "Great Power" and "Kraven the Hunter". In this version, Spider-Man corners him on a street after Uncle Ben's death, but can't bring himself to finish him off and leaves him for the police. Spider-Man later reveals this to White Tiger to persuade her not to kill Kraven, who had murdered her father.
The Burglar appears in Spider-Man, voiced by Benjamin Diskin. He is seen as part of a series of shorts re-telling Spider-Man's origins. In this version, Spider-Man catches up to the Burglar at an abandoned warehouse and attacks him, but stops upon recognizing him. Using the opportunity to break free from Spider-Man's grip, the Burglar, shaken by Spider-Man's attack, quickly runs out of the warehouse and immediately surrenders to the police that were waiting outside. He was then sentenced to 25 years in prison, and later life imprisonment.


=== Film ===
The Burglar appears in Sam Raimi's Spider-Man trilogy, portrayed by Michael Papajohn.
In the film Spider-Man, the Burglar (credited as "Carjacker") first appears robbing a fight promoter who had cheated Peter out of a lot of money. Wanting to get even, Peter lets him go despite having the chance to stop him. Peter later chases the man suspected to have killed Uncle Ben while attempting to steal his car. Peter chases and confronts him, and quickly recognizes who he is, whereupon the Carjacker tries to shoot him, but ends up tripping and falling to his death.
In Spider-Man 2, the Carjacker is mentioned when May expresses that she feels she had caused Ben's death. However, this prompts Peter into telling her that he let the criminal escape causing Ben's death, despite being capable of stopping him. Although May is shocked by this, she commends Peter on telling the truth.
In Spider-Man 3, it is revealed in a retcon that the Carjacker (now identified as Dennis Carradine) was not responsible for Ben Parker's death as had been assumed. The true killer was actually Carradine's partner, Flint Marko (who later becomes the Sandman); there were two witnesses who saw the whole scene of Marko shooting Ben. Carradine appears only in flashbacks: one where Peter imagines a scenario in which Carradine tried in vain to stop Marko from killing Ben, and another that depicts what actually happened. At the end of the film, Marko confesses to Peter that he had shot Ben by accident, when Carradine distracted him while trying to get into the car. Carradine, who paid no attention to the killing, stole the car and left Marko behind to take the fall. Marko escaped, however, and so it was Carradine who died for the crime Marko committed. Marko also confesses to Peter that he only wanted the car in his desperation to escape with the money he and Carradine stole, which he needed to save his sick daughter's life. Understanding the importance of forgiveness over revenge, Peter forgives Marko and allows him to leave.
In The Amazing Spider-Man, the Burglar (credited as "Cash Register Thief") is portrayed by Leif Gantvoort and has no dialogue. He distracts a deli clerk after he refuses to let Peter buy himself a bottle of chocolate milk and steals money from the till. The burglar throws the milk to Peter on his way out and Peter lets him escape despite having the chance to stop him. While running down the street, the thief trips in front of Ben (who was searching for his nephew) and a pistol falls out of his jacket. Ben attempts to grab it away, but a brief struggle results in Ben getting killed and the thief escaping. Peter rushes over to Ben's body and screams. After he obtains a police sketch and learns from an officer that the killer had a tattoo of a star on his left wrist, Peter realizes that it was the thief he let go. Over the next few weeks, Peter designs and builds web-shooters and the Spider-Man suit. He then listens to crime reports and follows any that alludes to the Burglar, locating and apprehending many criminals who fit the description. However, none of them have a star tattoo on their wrist and George Stacy indicates in a conversation that Peter's attempts to catch the man by catching random people are causing more harm than good. By the end of the film, the wanted poster of him is seen on Peter's notice board. The thief remains at large and had yet to be found.


=== Video games ===
The Burglar is the first boss in the Spider-Man video game (based on the 2002 film), voiced by Dan Gilvezan. In this incarnation, he is called "Spike", and is the leader of the Skulls gang. Wanting revenge for his uncle's death, Spider-Man chases Spike to his warehouse hideout and fights through the other Skulls, until finally reaching Spike. While fighting Spider-Man, Spike wields a sawn-off shotgun and flashbang grenades, but is ultimately defeated and then falls through a window to his death, in a manner similar to the film.
The Burglar appears in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game, voiced by Chris Edgerly. Two years after Uncle Ben's death, Spider-Man resumes his search for the murderer and interrogates Herman Schultz, one of his contractors, who reveals him to be Dennis Carradine, a low-level thug who has been selling advanced weaponry to gangs. Spider-Man later tracks down Carradine, who hijacks a car and takes the driver hostage. After Spider-Man rescues the hostage, Carradine crashes the car and is killed by an unseen murderer shortly before Spider-Man finds his dead body in an alley. The police officers subsequently identify his murderer as the "Carnage Killer".


== References ==