Captain Britain

Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) is a fictional superhero appearing in British and American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He first appeared in Captain Britain Weekly #1 (October 1976), the beginning of a serial best-remembered for runs by writer Chris Claremont, artist Alan Davis, and writer Alan Moore.
The character was initially intended exclusively for the British comics market. Endowed with extraordinary powers by the legendary magician Merlyn and his daughter Roma, Captain Britain is assigned to uphold the laws of Britain.


== Publication history ==
Captain Britain originally appeared in the first issue of Captain Britain Weekly (cover-dated the week ending 13 October 1976), an anthology comic published exclusively in the United Kingdom by the Marvel Comics imprint known as Marvel UK. The comic represented the first original content published by Marvel UK, who had previously only handled reprints of Marvel Comics' U.S. publications. However, the new content was still created by Marvel's American staff (the initial team being London-born writer Chris Claremont, penciller Herb Trimpe, and inker Fred Kida) under the supervision of U.S. editor Larry Lieber, then shipped to the UK for publication. (In addition, the new 8-page Captain Britain installments in each issue of Captain Britain Weekly were supplemented by more reprinted material, featuring Nick Fury and the Fantastic Four).
The character's creators are unknown, though Trimpe has remarked that the visual design looks like the work of John Romita, Sr., who was designing many of Marvel's characters at the time.The first two issues of the comic were also bundled with "free gifts", a cardboard Captain Britain mask in the first issue and a Captain Britain boomerang in the second, such novelties being a tradition with British comic book launches. Chris Claremont left the series after ten issues, midway through the "Doctor Synne" storyline, due to creative differences with the editor. Trimpe recalled that Claremont and his replacement, Gary Friedrich, while "miles apart in personality and approach to a story", were both flexible writers who allowed him considerable free rein in laying out and pacing the stories.With sales slowly declining, Captain Britain went to black-and-white with issue #24 (23 March 1977) and was cancelled entirely with issue #39 (6 July 1977), though the Captain Britain serial was immediately transferred to Marvel UK's Spider-Man comic, which was then retitled Super Spider-Man & Captain Britain. In 1978 Chris Claremont and John Byrne introduced Captain Britain to an American audience for the first time with Marvel Team-Up #65-66. The Marvel Team-Up story was reprinted as the last six installments of the UK serial, ending with Super Spider-Man & Captain Britain #253. This marked the end of Captain Britain's exploits until March 1979, when Captain Britain appeared with the Black Knight in the "Otherworld Saga" which ran in Hulk Comic. These guest appearances were the first time Captain Britain was written and drawn by British creators.The character was relaunched, in a redesigned costume, in the Marvel Superheroes anthology title, starting with issue #377 (September 1981). The relaunch was initially written by Dave Thorpe and illustrated by Alan Davis, who redesigned the costume at editor-in-chief Paul Neary's behest. Neary's chief concern was the original costume's lion chest emblem; though the emblem is a heraldic symbol, it is better known in the UK as a sign to denote the quality and freshness of eggs. Davis noted that his depiction of Brian Braddock was visually based on Garth, "an exaggerated Greek god, perfect in every way" and that:

I decided to base his costume on military uniforms. If you've ever seen the mounted guards outside Buckingham Place, you'll recognise  the components. The white leggings and the tall boots with the flaps over the knees were easy. The headgear took a bit more time because I wanted it to look like a helmet rather than a mask. The stripes across his chest started as two crossed sashes and underwent numerous changes.
The political commentaries in Thorpe's stories ignited conflicts with the editors, leading to his being replaced by Alan Moore with Marvel Superheroes #387 (July 1982). Moore used Thorpe's stories as a springboard for the "Jaspers' Warp" storyline. Captain Britain appeared as one of the characters in Marvel US's 1982 Contest of Champions limited series, albeit wearing his already-discarded original costume.
After Marvel Superheroes #388 (August 1982), the series moved into a new monthly comic, The Daredevils. When The Daredevils was canceled after eleven issues, Captain Britain was continued in The Mighty World of Marvel volume 2 #7 (December 1983). After the run of Alan Moore, who left because of a dispute over unpaid invoices, the serial continued for a few more issues with different writers (Steve Craddock, Alan Davis, and Mike Collins) before moving to the new Captain Britain Monthly. Jamie Delano took over writing duties with the first issue (cover-dated January 1985) on the recommendation of Moore and with the agreement of Davis. However, Davis later said "Initially I gave plot ideas to Jamie [Delano] but I was never happy with the direction he wanted to take things so I took more and more control until I eventually took over as writer."In the meantime, Captain Britain's long absence from American comics ended with a series of 1985 guest appearances, starting with Captain America #305-306. Following the cancellation of Captain Britain's solo series, Claremont and Davis created the one-shot special Excalibur: The Sword is Drawn (December 1987), which served to launch the American monthly Excalibur in 1988, featuring an eponymous team which included Captain Britain. Marvel UK incorporated Captain Britain as the main attraction of their own group series, Knights of Pendragon, which initially met with positive critical response and strong sales, but declined to the point of cancellation with issue #18.New Excalibur was introduced in 2005, with Captain Britain as team leader. This series ran until issue #24 and the team was disbanded in the X-Men: Die by the Sword limited series.
A new series was then started in 2008, using the Secret Invasion crossover storyline as a launchpad. Captain Britain headlines this series, Captain Britain and MI: 13, written by Paul Cornell, which included some characters from New Excalibur, as well as members of MI: 13 who appeared in Cornell's Wisdom limited series.
Panini Comics bought Marvel UK and in 2006 renewed and broadened their licence with Marvel which allows them to produce original comic stories for the British and European markets. This has included Captain Britain's first original appearance in UK comics in thirteen years, with a story that ran in Spectacular Spider-Man Adventures and Panini plan to have more in their new all-ages title Marvel Heroes.Captain Britain made several cameo appearances in Marvel Comics publications then would feature in a Heroic Age tie in anthology limited series and a Deadpool Team Up issue.Captain Britain appeared as a regular character in the 2010-2013 Secret Avengers series, from issue #22 (April 2012) through its final issue #37 (March 2013).
Beginning in November 2014, Captain Britain reappeared with the Avengers as a part of the Time Runs Out storyline.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Origins ===

Born and raised in the small town of Maldon, Essex and educated at Fettes College in Edinburgh, Brian was a shy and studious youth, living a relatively quiet life and spending a lot of time with his parents and siblings (older brother Jamie and fraternal twin Elizabeth). The family was an aristocratic one that was no longer rich enough to fraternise with their former academic peers, leaving Brian (too proud to fraternise with lower classes) a lonely child who immersed himself in the study of physics.After the death of his parents (Sir James and Lady Elizabeth) in what seemed to be a laboratory accident, Brian takes a fellowship at Darkmoor nuclear research centre. When the facility is attacked by the technological criminal Joshua Stragg (alias "The Reaver"), Brian tries to find help by escaping on his motorcycle. Although he crashes his bike in a nearly fatal accident, Merlyn and his daughter, the Omniversal Guardian Roma, appear to the badly injured Brian. They give him the chance to be the superhero Captain Britain. He is offered a choice: the Amulet of Right or the Sword of Might. Considering himself to be no warrior and unsuited for the challenge, he rejects the Sword and chooses the Amulet. This choice transforms Brian Braddock into Captain Britain.It is later revealed that Braddock is only one member of a much larger, inter-dimensional corps of mystical protectors. Every Earth in Marvel Comics' Multiverse has its own Captain Britain who is expected to defend that version of Britain and uphold its local laws. They are collectively called the Captain Britain Corps. Captain Britain protects "Earth-616" of the Marvel Universe. Later still, it was retconned that Brian's father, Sir James Braddock, was himself from Otherworld and a member of an earlier Corps; Merlyn had sent him to Earth-616 to take a carefully chosen mate and father a hero who would be far greater even than he (other comics still have the Braddock family as old and established: they've been in the Hellfire Club for generations and Braddock Manor is a "quarter millennium" old in its first appearance).


=== Early career as Captain Britain ===
As his career as a superhero begins, Brian fights as the champion of Great Britain, often clashing with S.T.R.I.K.E. and Welsh anti-superhero police officer Dai Thomas, and would develop a rogues gallery including the assassin Slaymaster and the crime matriarch Vixen. He tried to keep his studies going and court fellow student Courtney Ross while also working as a superhero, and (as with other Marvel heroes) was viewed as a coward by others because he always vanished whenever trouble started.During one episode, his siblings Betsy and Jamie became aware of his secret identity after he saved them from Dr. Synne, a villain terrorizing the land around Braddock Manor. Synne turned out to be the patsy of the sentient computer Mastermind, a device Brian's father had created; it was then Brian learned that his parents did not die in an accident but had been deliberately killed by the machine.Brian's greatest achievement in this time was preventing a neo-Nazi takeover of the country with the aid of Captain America, Nick Fury, and S.T.R.I.K.E. commander Lance Hunter. He was responsible for both saving Prime Minister Jim Callaghan from the Red Skull and from stopping the Skull's germ bomb from killing London. The Nazis' first strike had actually happened during the battle with Mastermind, when the Red Skull took the plans for the computer and had Braddock Manor bombed to rubble (a later retcon said Mastermind had created a hologram that was bombed instead); Captain Britain was briefly believed dead and an empty coffin laid in state at St Paul's Cathedral.As time goes on, Brian begins fighting more supernatural enemies rather than regular supervillains: this was part of Merlin's overall plan to mentally prepare him for Jaspers’ Warp.Soon afterwards, Brian travels to America to study. By a strange twist of fate, he rooms with Peter Parker (the hero Spider-Man) at Empire State University. A brief misunderstanding caused Brian to battle Spider-Man, before the two of them were captured by the assassin Arcade. They then tackled various challenges in Murderworld, rescued Brian's love interest Courtney who was kidnapped and placed in a sealed cocoon with limited air, and became the first victims to survive Murderworld. Near the end of this stay, homesickness and stress saw him drink heavily. He stopped after, when drunk and embarrassed by a defeat, he beat a supervillain so badly she was put in hospital; ashamed, Brian paid for her hospital bills and therapy.On a flight home from America, he came under mental attack by the demonic Necromon, causing Brian to leap out of the plane; he spent two years as a hermit on the Cornish coast, repairing his psyche. He was eventually called to Merlyn's service again, fighting alongside the Black Knight and the elf Jackdaw to defend Otherworld from Necromon. With his memories partially restored Brian and the Knight, allied with Vortigen the Proud Walker, battled Mordred the Evil. Both the Black Knight and Captain Britain were snatched out of time to join the Grandmaster's Contest of Champions, where Captain Britain fought against the Arabian Knight, but they were soon returned to resume their quest. At the entrance to Otherworld, Brian was slain by the spectral White Rider, and his corpse claimed by Mandrac: Nethergod Lord of the Slain and the Rider's master, though Merlyn and the Knight swiftly recovered it. Merlyn reunited Captain Britain's departed spirit with his body, resurrecting him. While the hero healed, Merlyn restored his remaining memories and informed him of the Nethergod's involvement with his early foes. Now recalling the location of King Arthur's body, the Black Knight, Captain Britain, and Jackdaw were sent to awaken the King. Succeeding in this quest, Arthur then sent Brian and Jackdaw magically away through the dimensions, stating Brian had a destiny to fulfill elsewhere. As a reward, he and Jackdaw were sent back to Earth.


=== Jaspers' Warp ===

With Necromon defeated, Merlyn merges the powers of the Amulet of Right and the Star Scepter into a uniform to be worn by Braddock. Captain Britain is sent with Jackdaw to Earth-238, a dictatorship run by the British National Party, whose rule was enforced by the Status Crew, where he works with the extra-dimensional Saturnyne to jump-start the reality's development.
Braddock witnesses both this Earth's descent into madness at the hands of Mad Jim Jaspers and Jackdaw's death, while he himself is murdered by the monstrous Fury before being resurrected back on Earth-616. This turns out to have been a deliberate plan by Merlyn to prepare him for the battle against the Jim Jaspers of Earth-616, a far more powerful being. Merlyn, who had previously resurrected Jackdaw, avoids doing so a second time to increase his chances of successfully reviving Captain Britain.
Brian would find himself saving his sister Betsy and the former Psi-Division of S.T.R.I.K.E. from his old enemy Slaymaster. He is also drafted by the mercenary group the Special Executive to save Saturnyne from a show trial, during which he witnessed the destruction of Earth-238's reality to prevent the Jaspers' Warp there from spreading out across the multiverse. He also encountered members of the pan-dimensional Captain Britain Corps, an organization of Captain Britains from various dimensions. However, he and his assembled allies were unable to prevent Earth-616's Jim Jaspers from expanding his influence over Earth, and though Brian fought bravely it fell to the Fury to kill the villain - Roma is of the opinion Merlyn intended all along for Brian to lead the Fury to Earth-616 to do this, but this was unconfirmed. Captain Britain also valiantly fights against the Fury, but although he comes close, is unable to best it. Now close to being killed by the Fury, Captain Britain is saved by Captain UK, a member of the Captain Britain Corps and on whose world the Fury killed all superheroes, including Captain UK's husband. Just as the Fury is about to land the killing blow on Captain Britain, Captain UK attacks it in a primal rage, tearing the Fury apart with her bare hands.


=== Post-Warp ===
Following this and battles against conventional villains the Crazy Gang, Slaymaster, and Vixen, Braddock was captured by Gatecrasher's Technet on behalf of Sat-Yr-9, and then fought his interdimensional counterpart Kaptain Briton. Brian is captured by Modred the Mystic, and teams with Captain America to defeat Modred. He also got caught up in the affairs of intelligence agency R.C.X., the British government's replacement for S.T.R.I.K.E. He also met his future lover Meggan.


=== Substituted ===
Due to the pressures put on him after the Warp, Braddock travels abroad for a while. R.C.X. recruits his sister Betsy to become Captain Britain while he is overseas, angering Brian enough to make him quit when he learns this upon his return. She manages in the role for a while, but unfortunately she proves no match for Slaymaster, who tears out her eyes. Aware of his twin's pain through their telepathic bond, Brian rushes back to fight Slaymaster, whom he eventually kills. After this episode, Brian resumes the mantle of Captain Britain. In real-world terms, these events took place over twelve pages across two issues, though more than five months pass for the characters while Betsy is Captain Britain. Their effect on Betsy, and her future with the X-Men, was profound.


=== Drawing of the Sword ===

When the X-Men appeared to perish in Dallas (see Fall of the Mutants), a group of heroes including Nightcrawler, Shadowcat, Phoenix III, and Meggan joined Brian to form Excalibur - Great Britain's premier super-team - in an effort to continue the work of the X-Men. Excalibur fought Gatecrasher's Technet in their first meeting together.Brian was soon reunited with Courtney Ross. He then first battled the Juggernaut. He clashed with old foes Arcade, and the Crazy Gang, and was caused to temporarily switch bodies with the Crazy Gang's Tweedledope. Brian also encountered and fought his other-dimensional Nazi counterpart Hauptmann Englande. With Excalibur, he battled Arcade's "Loonies". With Excalibur, he battled Thor, believing Thor to be Juggernaut due to Loki's magic. Brian then journeyed with Thor into a dimension ruled by Juggernaut.


=== Knights of Pendragon ===

During this period, Marvel UK launched a miniseries starring Captain Britain. It presented a much darker and mature version of Braddock as a part of the Arthurian myth than was found in Excalibur. In the first volume, Braddock teams with police inspector Dai Thomas, a regular from his old solo series, and journalist Kate McClellan. The three investigate a series of grisly murders that are finally revealed to be the work of mythical creature the Green Knight, a key character in Arthurian mythology. The series also implied a strong mystical connection between Braddock and the knight Lancelot.


=== Identity crises ===
Brian quits costumed adventuring for a time and concentrates on research, building the Midnight Runner for Excalibur. Eventually, he and Meggan become engaged. However, Brian, Meggan, and the rest of Excalibur are soon captured by the R.C.X. and Brian is severely beaten while resisting. Dying, broken and bloody, he is healed by Roma, who fixes the arcane circuitry in his costume to match his body's frequencies. She also removes the "blunder factor" she had secretly cast over him (a curse she had cast ensuring that he would need the help of the entire team until he saw the innate value in it). The evil members of R.C.X. are cleared out in a joint effort by Excalibur and the members of an internal mutiny.
Immediately afterward, Phoenix III reappears and Excalibur journeys into the future to save the world from the Sentinels. On the way back, Brian is lost in the time-stream. Eventually, his body parts start reappearing in the same space as Rachel's - first his arms, then his chest - for brief flickers. Eventually, a rift is opened in which Brian and Rachel switch places. Rachel is flung to the far future to become the Mother Askani and Brian returns home. He is flooded, however, with memories of the far future and remains disconnected from the real world. He calls himself "Britannic" for some time, but eventually re-acclimates himself to his old life. It changes slightly, as Excalibur moves to Muir Island and new members join the team. Brian has a prophetic vision concerning the London Branch of the Hellfire Club's plan to take over the United Kingdom. Brian infiltrates the Club by claiming his father's position as Black Rook and, again with Excalibur's help, thwarts its efforts at domination.


=== King of Otherworld ===
In a battle with the Dragons of the Crimson Dawn, Brian expends all of his power to stop a dimensional portal from opening. Having lost his powers, he leaves the team for some time, but returns to fulfill his dream of marrying Meggan. After the ceremony on Otherworld, the team disbands and its members return to the United States.
Brian soon finds work at the Darkmoor research facility. During one of his tests on the new blade and armor of his friend the Black Knight, Widget appears with warriors who begin to attack on Roma's behalf. The heroes (including Psylocke, who is also visiting England) drive the attackers off, then follow them to Otherworld where they discover that the Captain Britain Corps has been decimated. Together with the survivors - Crusader X and Captain UK - Brian and his comrades attempt to stop Roma from acquiring the Sword of Might. This, together with the Amulet of Right, would have the ability to remake the cosmos. Brian searches for the Sword but finds a computer-filled shrine in a cavern built by his father. A hologram of James Braddock, Sr. explains to Brian that he is the savior and rightful heir of Otherworld with the innate right to wield Excalibur. The hologram re-activates Brian's powers and as he draws the sword, a fiery cross (similar to the British flag) appears as a mask on his face. Brian then confronts Roma, who is revealed to be his father's sentient and insane computer Mastermind. With the aid of the real Roma, Braddock defeats the powerful computer. Roma then relinquishes control of Otherworld to Captain Britain. He and Meggan remain in Otherworld as effective rulers of the multiverse. Unbeknownst to Brian, the events leading up to his assumption of the Otherworld were orchestrated by Kang the Conqueror, for reasons yet to be revealed.
In the "Lionheart of Avalon" storyline in The Avengers, the sorceress Morgan Le Fay captures Brian and Meggan. Le Fay hopes that by killing Braddock and severing his mystical ties to the land, she will destroy all of Great Britain. However, Brian appears to Kelsey Leigh, a British mother who dies protecting both her children and Captain America from the Wrecking Crew. Braddock offers her the choice between the Amulet and the Sword and, feeling that she could better defend her children with a weapon, she chooses the latter. Although she is changed into a new Captain Britain, she remains cursed by the inability to ever reveal herself to her children. Because he transfers his power to Kelsey, the plan to destroy Britain fails.


=== New Excalibur ===

Returning to Otherworld, Braddock and Meggan become rulers of the realm. However, Captain Britain is forced to come back to Earth to stop the House of M reality-shift from destroying all dimensions. During this time, his wife Meggan apparently sacrifices her life to close a rip in time that would have destroyed all existence. This results in Brian becoming active as Captain Britain again and the formation of a new Excalibur, along with Peter Wisdom, Sage, Juggernaut, Dazzler, and Nocturne. Captain Britain also believes his sister Psylocke to be dead, unaware that she has joined the Exiles.

He also assisted Pete Wisdom and British intelligence agency MI-13 in their battle against a Martian invasion.After the defeat of Albion by New Excalibur, Braddock is reunited with his sister and the Exiles in the miniseries X-Men: Die by the Sword before he is severely injured by Rouge-Mort.


=== Captain Britain and MI: 13 ===

A new series, written by Paul Cornell and drawn by Leonard Kirk, features Captain Britain, Pete Wisdom, and other British superheroes working for MI: 13. The series opened with a Skrull onslaught on Britain, part of the "Secret Invasion" storyline, that saw every British hero drafted into MI:13.
After fighting Skrull forces in London, Brian was dispatched with Pete Wisdom, John the Skrull, and Spitfire to the Siege Perilous (a gateway to the Otherworld) to secure Avalon and thus the world's magic from Skrull conquest. Brian is left uncomfortable by having to kill Skrulls and being separated from the Corps, and simply desires to represent his country (believing, despite Wisdom's statements to the contrary, that he stopped doing so). When the Skrulls shot a missile at the Siege to destroy Earth's access to magic, he attempted to divert it and was killed in a vicious explosion  - every inhabitant of the United Kingdom became instantly aware of his death.Captain Britain was once again resurrected by Merlin in the center of Britain, and after taking possession of the sword Excalibur, confronted the Skrulls in London; his resurrected form is stated by Merlin to be no longer plagued with doubts and a unified symbol of the United Kingdom, "like their flag, one thing that contains many!". He has increased powers and theoretically has no limits, but this is reliant on his level of confidence - he can just as easily become weak and vulnerable. While he has chosen to work with MI:13 and their superhero team, he has stated that the superheroes will no longer kill.In battle against Doctor Plokta, creator of the Mindless Ones, he was temporarily trapped in Plokta's "Dream Corridor" - a magical construct trapping you in your heart's desire - where he briefly believed he had found Meggan again. He got free and defeated Plokta by forcing him into his own Corridor (presented as a supremely powerful act), but was left unaware that the real Meggan had tried to make contact and was now stuck in Hell. Later, however, during a conflict with Dracula, Dr. Doom gives Meggan to Dracula to use as a bargaining chip. After Captain Britain and MI13 defeat Dracula, Meggan and Captain Britain are reunited.


=== Avengers ===
During an international meeting between Steve Rogers and MI13, Captain Britain was offered a job with the Avengers. Captain Britain accepted despite mixed reactions from his MI13 teammates.He then disappeared from view to fight a war in Otherworld against the demonic Goat, who had attempted to subjugate the multiverse. His brother Jamie, now cured of madness, was a key ally and Brian tried to cajole Psylocke into joining as well. Relations with his sister deteriorated as the Corps tried to put her teammate Fantomex on trial for murdering a child Apocalypse, arguing that it was still a crime to kill a child for what they may become. Ironically, in the end it turned out the Goat was a future version of Jamie who had been turned evil and Betsy, who had been forced to sacrifice her emotions to win in battle, stopped the villain by killing the contemporary Jamie; she then berated Brian for leaving the choice to her. He was left bitter by the loss and estranged from his sister.Later, he becomes one of the new members of the Secret Avengers. He left when the team disbanded after a battle with a race of robotic beings known as the Descendants. Relations were salvaged with Betsy after X-Force was disbanded and she admitted he had been right to try to convict Fantomex for murder, while he admitted that it had been a testament to character that Fantomex had ever been able to fight off his murderous Sentinel urges.He is later seen as the head of the Braddock Academy (the British answer to the Avengers Academy), running it alongside Meggan, Spitfire, Union Jack, and Elsa Bloodstone. One of the students is a young alternate version of himself, Kid Briton.


=== Revolutionary War ===
At an unspecified time, Captain Britain and an army of British heroes defeated Mys-Tech in battle; the agency came close to sending all of Britain to hell in order to pay off their debts to Mephisto. Following the battle, S.H.I.E.L.D. was secretly called in to clean up the remains of Mys-Tech's bases and technology as MI-13 didn't have the resources to do it. Brian was made a member of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s European Division. Years later, Pete Wisdom learned about this and sarcastically remarked he was proud that Brian was acting like him.Brian, MI-13, and S.H.I.E.L.D. began investigating a suspected return of Mys-Tech but he was swiftly beaten down and captured by Death's Head II. This was actually a ruse by Death's Head II to plant a tracking device and find out why the Psycho-Wraiths wanted the captain (he didn't bother to tell Brian). The Prime Wraith wanted the hero to be part of six living batteries for a monotrace core, opening a portal to Hell for Mephisto's armies (led by the brainwashed hero Killpower) to ravage the Earth. Captain Britain was freed and fought to hold back the demons, and tried to find a solution other than killing Killpower. "We're heroes, we don't [kill]--" was all he could say before Killpower was gunned down by the anti-heroes Major Hauer, Death's Head, and Colonel Liger. Afterwards, on a whim Captain Britain placed a union flag on top of a damaged Big Ben, deciding that surviving the battle gave them "the right to celebrate a little" 


=== "Time Runs Out" ===
Eight months later during the "Time Runs Out" storyline, it is revealed that the Multiverse is suffering from violent incursions between parallel Earths. Captain Britain is seen as a new member of the Illuminati. He is shown to be missing one of his eyes and states that he is the last surviving member of the Captain Britain Corps with the other members having all perished due to the collapse of the Multiverse.


=== Champions of Europe ===
During the "Secret Empire" storyline, Captain Britain appears as a member of the Champions of Europe alongside Ares, Excalibur, Guillotine, Outlaw, and Peregrine.Captain Britain later represented the government of the United Kingdom when he attended Black Panther's meeting in the Eden Room of Avengers Mountain.


=== Dawn of X ===
Following the events of Dawn of X, Brian was corrupted by Morgan le Fay and turned into her champion. Betsy resumed the role of Captain Britain and the leadership of a new Excalibur team. While Brian was freed from le Fay's thrall, his position was not restored.


== Powers and abilities ==
Originally, Captain Britain's powers were linked to the mystical Amulet of Right, worn around his neck. When Brian Braddock rubbed the amulet he was transformed from an ordinary mortal into a superhero version of himself, complete with a more muscular physique. The amulet could also mystically replenish his superhuman energies. He possessed a telescoping staff to vault which had other functions, the most heavily relied upon being the ability to project a force field. Later, Merlyn changed the staff into the mace-like Star Sceptre, which Captain Britain could utilize like a quarterstaff and which gave him the ability of flight. Merlyn changed his costume just before he entered the alternate Earth-238, fusing the powers of the Amulet and the Scepter into the new uniform and then later put these powers within Captain Britain himself when he was forced to rebuild Captain Britain following Captain Britain's death at the hands of the Fury, making the suit a regulatory device for his powers. Eventually, Captain Britain no longer required even the battle-suit for the full use of his powers, as his heritage of being the son of a denizen of the extra-dimensional Otherworld became enough to power him.Brian Braddock has superhuman strength, speed, stamina, durability, reflexes, senses, and the ability to fly at supersonic speeds. He possesses enhanced perceptions that allow him to be aware of things others may miss (such as objects cloaked by spells of illusion). When he and Meggan destroyed the Otherworld energy matrix at Roma's prompting, the energies that allowed him to retain his power within the UK without his costume were dissipated. Hence, to retain his powers anywhere on Earth, he must wear the costume at all times. His costume acts as an antenna and battery, allowing him to retain his powers wherever he goes.
However, the conditions of his power were once again changed during his death and resurrection in the first story arc of Captain Britain and MI: 13 as explained by writer Paul Cornell,

As we reveal in issue five, the limits of Captain Britain's powers are now tied into his emotions. So if he's feeling very determined and confident, then he's very powerful, but if he's losing it then he'll really be losing it. He's as strong as he used to be, and he can fly, and that's all due to his magical nature, not to his costume. I've always seen him as something like the Shazam Captain Marvel, a hero formed through magic. Which means the subjective nature of what he can now do feels apt to me. As he himself says about great feats depending on whether or not he can gather all his courage together, he says: "well, I am Captain Britain."
Captain Britain is the fraternal twin of Betsy Braddock, a telepath, resulting in a strong psychic bond between the two. As described by writer Chris Claremont in the Uncanny X-Men House of M storyline, the two are in fact immune to each other's powers because of their genetic connection.In addition, Braddock is a brilliant scientist with a Ph.D. in physics.


== Other versions ==
Captain Britain has been represented in various incarnations, not exclusive to Brian Braddock. In addition to other characters who have assumed the mantle of Captain Britain in the absence of Braddock, there have been several other versions of characters written to have originated from alternate universes.


=== Mainstream depictions ===
Brian Braddock - becomes Captain Britain, after Merlyn gives him the Amulet of Right.
Elizabeth "Betsy" Braddock - assumes the mantle of Captain Britain while Brian Braddock is away working for the covert British agency R.C.X.
Modred the Mystic - briefly assumes the mantle of Captain Britain by syphoning off Braddock's energies in an effort to defeat Merlyn.
Kelsey Leigh Kirkland - receives the Sword of Might from Braddock, after she is killed defending Captain America.


=== Alternate universe versions ===


==== Captain Britain Corps ====
Founded by Merlyn, the Captain Britain Corps are formed to defend the Multiverse. Each member protected his or her reality based on their dimensional equivalent of Britain, and was powered by the friction between dimensions. Prominent members aside from Braddock include Captain Albion and Captain UK. The group includes multiple versions of Braddock, as well, including Captain England, Crusader X, and others named Captain Britain.

The Captain Britain Corps is a fictional league of super-heroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The characters are all known as, or appear as an alternative version of, Captain Britain. They are all essentially the same hero except they each come from an alternative reality.


=== Fictional team history ===
Founded by Merlyn, his daughter Roma and Sir James Braddock, the Corps' main duty was to guard the Multiverse. Each member protected his or her reality based on their dimensional equivalent of Britain, and was powered by the friction between dimensions.
Merlyn and Roma arranged for each chosen member of the Corps to gain superpowers, using any means, disguise or otherwise, possible.


==== The making of Brian Braddock ====
Merlyn chose Brian Braddock to become Earth-616's version of Captain Britain. After Braddock had adventured as Captain Britain for a few years, Merlyn sent Braddock to Earth-238, where he overheard that this reality once had a Captain UK, however Braddock was unsure of what this meant until he met Captain England and Captain Albion at a trial in another reality.Back in his own home world, Braddock allied himself with Captain UK who had taken up home there after her Britain had become a fascist state and the heroes living there were targeted for a genocidal purge. Together they fought the hero-killer Fury after which Captains Britain and UK and their new ally Saturnyne were transported to Merlyn's home, Otherworld. Here they discovered that Merlyn had apparently died. Later they discover that it was one of his many ruses.


==== Otherworld ====
 For what seems like the first time, the Corps in their entirety attended Merlyn's funeral. Afterwards Roma began taking a more direct approach with the Corps, even making Saturnyne her subordinate (mainly to keep an eye on her). She started bringing Corps members to the Starlight Citadel for training. Roma then added another duty to the Corps list of responsibilities. In addition to protecting their home realities, they must also take turns in defending Otherworld.During the adventures of Captain Britain (Braddock), Corpsmen would occasionally appear. These appearances are usually to observe important events (such as the wedding of Meggan and Braddock and the conclusion of the Cross-Time Caper) or to carry out a sentence, as when they acted as jury at Braddock’s trial for breaching the Corps Code of Conduct.


==== Franklin Richards ====
When Roma perceived Franklin Richards to be a threat, not only to his home reality (Earth-616) but to all of reality, she dispatched the Warwolves, Gatecrasher and her Technet to kidnap him. When her plan was being opposed by the Fantastic Four and Alyssa Moy, who was babysitting Franklin at the time, Roma teleported them all to Otherworld to face the full fury of the entire Corps.Although they were hampered by having never worked as a team, the Corps eventually started wearing down the heroes, until Franklin used his reality manipulating mutant powers to supercharge his family who defeated the entire Captain Britain Corps. After a brief debate with Human Torch, Roma agreed that Franklin should be left with his family.However, it was suggested that the entire kidnapping was just a ruse to let Caledonia, a former prisoner of Roma's starlight citadel, infiltrate the Fantastic Four's home as Franklin's nanny to prepare them for their forthcoming battle with Abraxas.


==== Near destruction ====
The Corps was nearly wiped out by Mastermind, a villainous computer belonging to Brian Braddock, and a group of mutated children known as the Warpies (victims of the Jaspers' Warp), who were once the wards of Captain UK. Roma stepped down as omniversal guardian, giving the title to Brian Braddock, who became King of Otherworld and rebuilt the Corps.
When the insane mutant Wanda Maximoff altered reality in House of M, another wave of destruction tore through Otherworld. Roma and Saturnyne, in an effort to save the omniverse, give Brian 48 hours to fix the tear in reality, or they will erase his Earth completely. With the sacrifice of Meggan, the heroes are able to seal the tear.The corps rebuilt its ranks but once again it came under attack, this time from Mad Jim Jaspers and corps members which he began to turn into Furys. The end of the battle saw Roma dead and most of the corps along with her. Saturnyne appointed Albion leader and told Captain Britain to stay and keep an eye on his reality as they rebuilt the corps once again.


==== Uncanny X-Force ====
Captain Britain Corps comes to Earth to arrest Fantomex for the murder of the young Apocalypse. Fantomex justifies his actions that the young Apocalypse will become evil, but Captain Britain suggest he never had a chance of redemption. During the trial the "Goat-Devil" lays siege to Otherworld and the Uncanny X-force come to save Fantomex from execution. Psylocke then realizes the Goat-Devil is actually her older brother from the future and tells Captain Britain to kill him. Captain Britain cannot do it himself, but lowers his psychic defenses and allows Psylocke to control him and kill Jamie Braddock, thus erasing The Goat from the future and ending the siege.


==== Time Runs Out ====
During the events of "Time Runs Out", the Captain Britain Corps investigate universal Incursions which are causing the destruction of various realities, and the deaths of twenty Corpsmen. After the members of the Corps capture a Mapmaker, the Ivory Kings send their entire forces to overrun the Starlight Citadel, destroying the entire Corps. Saturnyne is able to teleport Brian Braddock to safety, leaving him as the Corps' only survivor.


==== Dawn of X ====
Following the reestablishment of the Multiverse, Brian is still the only member of the Captain Britain Corps alive. However when the mutant nation of Krakoa and the dimension known as Otherworld, the mystical realm that serves as the collective subconscious of the British Isles, were plunged into conflict, Brian was corrupted by Morgana Le Fey and had to pass the title of Captain Britain to his sister Betsy Braddock. The conflict ended with Jamie Braddock on Otherworld's throne. Being an Omega level mutant who can manipulate reality itself, Jamie breaks reality by using Earth-616 as the foundation and rebuilds itself around his sister Betsy, by changing several details and allowing the new reality to "backfill" justifications for why it exists. In a shocking twist, Jamie then kills the alternate version of his sister, fracturing reality once again. He did this in order to restore the numbers of the Captain Britain Corps, which historically, were made up of Braddock family members across the Omniverse (usually Brian), although through Jamie's "unprecedented" measures, reality chooses new heroes in the form of the members of Excalibur that have all stood alongside Betsy Braddock's defense of Otherworld, and now they too are given versions of the Amulet of Right, thus transformed into Captains Britain. That means the new members of the Captain Britain Corps are Gambit, Jubilee, Rictor and Rogue.


== Membership ==
Although members usually call themselves simply "The Corps", other seems to attach their name to the Corps. For example, "Crusader X Corps" or the better known and most prevalent "Captain Britain Corps", which is better known since Braddock became King of Otherworld.
The Captain Britain Corps spans the multiverse and have a huge collection of members most of which go unnamed. The Corps, not only consists of alternative versions of Brian Braddock from throughout the multiverse, but also characters representing a vast array of different worlds, such as Hauptmann Englande, a member representing a world where Nazis won World War II and  Captain Airstrip-One from a world based on  George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, while some even vary in species, like an animal version and even more exotic forms. While some members, like Captain U.K., have been utilized throughout many worlds,  she provided support for Braddock on Earth-616, and replaced the fallen Captains of Earth-794 and later Earth-839.
Membership is depleted following the attack by Mastermind and the Warpies, M-Day, and Jaspers return, with the ranks slowly being rebuilt first under the command of Brian Braddock (Earth-616) and currently Albion.


=== Known current members ===


=== Former members ===
Those members who have left or are known to have died: 


=== Unconfirmed ===
Lists members whose status is unclear, the Corps was decimated in X-Men: Die by the Sword and the full aftermath of that incident has yet to be shown.

Agent Albion (Victoria Whitman) (Earth-10221) - Excalibur vol. 2 #1 (2001)
Anglo-Simian (Joseph Cornelius) (Earth-5905) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Britannic (Brian Braddock) (Earth-28927) - Excalibur Annual #2
Britanicus Rex (Brian Braddock) (Earth-99476) -Excalibur vol. 1 #51 - He resided in the dimension also known as Dino-World.
Britanotron - Excalibur #43
Caledonia (Alysande Stuart) (Earth-9809) - Fantastic Four vol. 3 #9 - She was a prisoner in the Starlight Citadel before becoming Franklin Richards' nanny on Earth-616 as well as a spy for Roma.
Cap'n Saxonia (Frideswide Lawley) (Earth-924) -Excalibur #49 - Also a member of Calibur alongside that dimension's versions of Spider-Girl, Iron Fist, Hulk and Dr. Strange. She was sometimes known as Captain Saxonia.
Captain Albion (Katherine Huggen) (Earth-523) - Daredevils #6
Captain Angleterre (Paul-Henri Spencer) (Earth-305) - Mighty World of Marvel vol. 2 #13 (1984)
Captain Britain (Meggan) (Earth-1189) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 - Her world was devastated by nuclear war. She took over the mantle after her version of Braddock died and became part of the Corps.
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-3913) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991) - He was accused of murdering a police officer.
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-4400) - Exiles #43
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-7475) - Alpha Flight #74 - Runs the common market, all of Western Europe and North Africa.
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-8545) - Exiles #20
Captain Britain (Betsy Braddock) (Earth-9012) - Excalibur vol. 1 #43 (1991)
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-9411) - Spectacular Spider-Man vol. 2 #114
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-21993) - What If? vol. 2 #46
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-32000) - X-Men Unlimited #26
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-98125) - Marvel Vision #25 - He chose both the Amulet of Life and the Sword of Death.
King Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-9997) - Paradise X: X - Captain Britain became King of England and resides in the Realm of the Dead.
Captain Colonies (Stephen Rogers) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44.
Captain Cymru (Morwen Powell) (Earth-1282) - Excalibur vol. 1 #24 - One of the few known Captains who uses a gun with Plastrix.
Centurion Britannus (Thracius Scipio Magnus) (Earth-4100) - Excalibur vol. 1 #24 (1990) - His costume resembles that of the Roman Empire. He invokes Mithras, a god worshiped in both India and Ancient Rome.
Centurionous Britainicosarus (Magnus Rex) (Earth-6993) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Chevalier Bretagne (René de Bragelonne) (Earth-1508) - Excalibur vol. 1 #24 (1990) - He wears a purple and green suit similar to a Musketeer.
Chieftain Justice (T'Challa) (Earth-6606) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Crusader X (Bran Braddock) (Earth-2122) - Excalibur vol. 1 #21 - (1990)
Enforcer Capone (Adolfo Costa) (Earth-89947) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Friar Albion (Petros Wisdom) (Earth-9586) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Gizmo (William "Billy" Ransom) (Earth-40121) - Excalibur vol. 2 #1
Gotowar Konanegg (Kavin Plundarr) (Earth-8413) - Mighty World Of Marvel vol. 2 #13 (1984)
Kommandant Englander (Helga Geering) (Earth-846) - Mighty World Of Marvel vol. 2 #13 - She is from a German dominated world.
Lady London (Sybil Sherman) (Earth-9006) - Excalibur vol. 1 #24 (1990)
Maasai Marion (Sadiki Namuntaya) (Earth-1857) - Excalibur vol. 1 #43 (1991)
Madam Sussex (Francesca Grace) (Earth-4811) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Maid Britannia (Guinevere Wren) (Earth-8406) - Mighty World Of Marvel vol. 2 #13
Major Commonwealth (Byron Falsworth) (Earth-4904) - Mighty World Of Marvel vol. 2 #13 (1984)
Mercian Marsh'al (C'rta M'ller) (Earth-5511) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Officer Saxon (Peter Hunter) (Easth-9106) - Excalibur vol. 1 #43 (1991)
Percy Penfold (Earth-81289) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Pookie Pendragon (Kozfran) (Earth-9246) - Excalibur vol. 1 #24 (1990)
Privateer Albion (Jack Turner) (Earth-9890) - Excalibur vol. 1 #124
Rifleman (Lance Hunter) (Earth-22110) - Excalibur vol. 2 #1
Right Honorable Captain Winston Faneshawe-Sinclair (Earth-3208) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Samurai Saxonai (Kendra Matsumoto) (Earth-6315) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Sister Gaia (Serena Foster) (Earth-9111) - Excalibur vol. 1 #44 (1991)
Skrull Lord: Colony UK7 (Kl'rt) (Earth-6309) - Excalibur vol. 1 #49
Will Of The People (John Raven) (Earth-7305) - Excalibur vol. 1 #50


=== Unknown association ===
Characters that have taken the name and role of Captain Britain but have not been stated as being part of the corps.

Captain Britain (Kymri) (Earth-1289) - Excalibur vol. 1 #16 - She and Lockheed jointly took the mantle of Captain Britain. Her planet was conquered and her people enslaved. She was bound to Kyllian as his personal hound by Tullamore Vogue.
Captain Britain (Lockheed) (Earth-1289) - Excalibur vol. 1 #16 - He and Kymri jointly took the mantle of Captain Britain.
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-1610) - The Ultimate version
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) (Earth-2149) - Marvel Zombies #2 - was infected with the zombie virus by Quicksilver.


=== Albion ===
Bran Bardic is from a world ravaged by war for almost a century. This version of Braddock chose the Sword of Might over the Amulet of Right and would later travel to Earth-616 and ally himself with Black Air and Shadow-X before creating an army of Shadow Captains in an attempt to take over England and overthrow the Captain Britain Corps.


=== Age of Apocalypse ===

In the Age of Apocalypse, Brian Braddock never becomes Captain Britain, and his past history remains unrevealed. Brian is one of the members of the Human High Council, alongside Moira Trask, Bolivar Trask, Emma Frost, and Mariko Yashida. Brian owned Braddock Industries, a company that aided fellow Council member Bolivar Trask in creating his Sentinels, robots that policed the Eurasian continent, and is also the most vocal advocate for the extermination of mutants, much to the weariness of Council members Yashida and Frost, who seem much less fanatical in their beliefs. Although Mariko Yashida becomes suspicious of Brian's erratic behavior, after a failed attempt on his life by a servant of Apocalypse, Braddock proposes the assembly of the entire Council fleet to attack Apocalypse's capital. However, it is revealed that Braddock had in fact become a victim of a mind control device that forced him to act as a mole for Donald Pierce and his Reavers, and died at Pierce's hands when he overcomes his influence and refuses to kill Emma Frost.In an alternate AoA timeline, from What If?: Age of Apocalypse, Captain Britain is a member of the Defenders (their version of the Avengers), and uses Iron Man's armor. In this timeline, Legion kills both Professor Xavier and Magneto, therefore the X-Men never existed, so mankind's only hope lies with the Defenders. The other Defender members are Weapon X, the Thing (using a metal prosthetic arm), X-Man, Colossus, Brother Voodoo, Molecule Man, and Sauron, led by Captain America (who wields Thor's hammer, Mjolnir). During the final offensive against Apocalypse, Captain Britain loses his life fighting the Hulk (one of Apocalypse's Horsemen in this reality), who rips Britain's body apart.


=== Marvel Zombies ===
A zombie version of Captain Britain briefly appears in the miniseries Marvel Zombies while the Silver Surfer travels the globe. He also briefly appears in Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness, having been zombified by the world-racing newly infected Quicksilver.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===

In the Ultimate Marvel Universe, Captain Britain is a member of the European Defense Initiative (the EU equivalent of the Ultimates), along with Captain Italy, Captain France, Captain Spain and several unnamed members most likely from other European countries, all of whom have the same powers: flight, super strength and a force field. All four of them developed their powers from the super powered exo-suits developed by Professor Sir James Braddock, who oversees the EDI super soldier program. Captain Britain and the other members of European Defense Initiative helped the Ultimates track down and contain Thor and they released the Fantastic Four, Spider-Man and the X-Men during the Liberators' attack on America. They are also seen helping to pull up the Statue of Liberty after the battle is over. During Ultimatum, Captain Britain (along with other Captains) is discussing how to take action against Magneto in the Houses of Parliament. However, Multiple Man bursts in and sets off a bomb, destroying the Houses of Parliament and everyone inside. His status is unknown on panel, although he was listed in the in memoriam section at the end of Ultimatum #5. He survived the attack at the Houses of Parliament, although he succumbed to the cancer caused by using one of the first versions of the Captain Britain suit, and his brother James took the mantle of Captain Britain.Dr. Jamie Braddock is revealed to be the new Captain Britain in the Ultimates.


=== Age of Ultron ===
During the Age of Ultron storyline, Captain Britain and MI-13 join Captain Marvel in fighting the Ultron Sentinels that invade London. Captain Marvel and Brian sacrifice their lives to destroy the invading Ultron Sentinels, with Faiza Hussain tasked to become the next Captain Britain.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Captain Britain was briefly seen in the fourth part of the Phoenix Saga from X-Men, in the episode "The Starjammers". Psylocke mentions him during "Beyond Good and Evil", though she merely says "my brother".
Captain Britain appears in The Super Hero Squad Show episode "O Captain, My Captain", voiced by Charlie Adler. He is shown as a member of the All-Captains Squad alongside Captain America, Captain Australia, Captain Brazil, and Captain Liechtenstein.
Captain Britain briefly appears in the final episode of Marvel Anime.
In March 2016, it was reported in the British media that Marvel had plans to start a new series starring Captain Britain.


=== Video games ===
Captain Britain is a playable character in the Facebook game Marvel Avengers Alliance.
Captain Britain appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by JB Blanc.
Captain Britain appears in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Travis Willingham. It is the original version of Captain Britain from the 1977 comic books, complete with Star Sceptre.


=== Postage Stamps ===
Captain Britain was included in the Royal Mail Marvel stamp collection which was issued on 14 March 2019. There are 15 stamps illustrated by Alan Davis which includes Captain Britain, Union Jack, Spider-Man, Captain Marvel, Iron Man, Doctor Strange, Hulk, Black Panther, Thor and Peggy Carter.


== Reception ==
IGN ranked Captain Britain as the 79th greatest comic book hero of all time stating, "as he is the only Marvel hero to receive the benefit of Alan Moore's pen, the character enjoys very rarefied status in the Marvel Universe", and 34th in their list of "The Top 50 Avengers".An article in the Times of London in March 2016 stated, "Captain Britain's nemesis turned out to be lack of popularity [...] and his adventures ended after a year".


== Collected editions ==
A number of trade paperbacks have been released collecting both the early run and Alan Moore's updated version (his run being reprinted after Jamie Delano's which followed it. However, the 2005 Panini reprint renumbers it as volume 1).Trade Paperbacks from Panini and Marvel Comics

'Captain Britain Annual 1978 (by Chris Claremont, with pencils by Herb Trimpe and inks by Fred Kida, reprints Captain Britain Weekly #1-7, Marvel Comics, 1977)
Volume 1: The Birth of a Legend (by Chris Claremont, collects Captain Britain Weekly #1-23, 196 pages, February 2007, ISBN 1-905239-30-0)
Volume 2: Hero Reborn (by Gary Friedrich, collects Captain Britain Weekly #24-39 and Super Spider-Man and Captain Britain #231-238, 204 pages, November 2007, ISBN 1-905239-72-6)
Volume 3: The Lion and the Spider (collects Super Spider-Man and Captain Britain #239-247, Marvel Team-Up #65-66, and Hulk Comic Weekly #1, 3-30, 204 pages, November 2008, ISBN 1-84653-401-1)
Volume 4: The Siege of Camelot (by Alan Moore, Alan Davis and Steve Parkhouse, collects Hulk Comic Weekly #42-55, 57-63, Marvel Super Heroes #377-388 and The Daredevils #1-11, 258 pages, November 2009, ISBN 1-84653-433-X)
Volume 5: End Game (by Alan Moore, Jamie Delano and Alan Davis, collects Mighty World of Marvel (vol. 2) #7-16 and Captain Britain Monthly #1-14, 292 pages, December 2010, ISBN 1-84653-459-3)
Volume 1 (by Jamie Delano and Alan Davis, collects The Mighty World of Marvel vol. 2 #14-16 and Captain Britain Monthly #1-14, 1984–1985, tpb, 1988, ISBN 1-85400-020-9)
Volume 2 (by Alan Moore and Alan Davis, collects Marvel Superheroes #387-388, The Daredevils #1-11 and The Mighty World of Marvel vol. 2, #7-13, 1982–1984, tpb, 2002, ISBN 0-7851-0855-6, Panini Comics, 2005, ISBN 1-905239-10-6)Oversized Hardcovers from Marvel Comics

Volume 1: Birth Of A Legend (collects Captain Britain #1-39 and Super Spider-Man & Captain Britain #231-232)
Volume 2: Siege Of Camelot (collects Super Spider-Man & Captain Britain #233-247, Marvel Team-Up #65-66, and material from Hulk Comic #1, 3-46, Incredible Hulk Weekly #47-55, 57-58, and Incredible Hulk (UK) #59-63Omnibus Hardcovers from Marvel Comics

Captain Britain By Alan Moore & Alan Davis Omnibus (collects Marvel Super-Heroes #377-388, The Daredevils #1-11, Captain America #305-306, Mighty World of Marvel (vol. 2) #7-16, Captain Britain Monthly #1-14, New Mutants Annual #2, and Uncanny X-Men Annual #11, 672 pages, hardcover, April 2009, ISBN 0-7851-3760-2)Other collections include:

House of M: Uncanny X-Men (collects Uncanny X-Men #462-465, February 2006, ISBN 0-7851-1663-X)
X-Men: Die by the Sword (collects 6-issue miniseries, March 2008, ISBN 0-7851-2791-7)


== See also ==
Marvel Comics Multiverse


== References ==


== External links ==
Captain Britain on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) at Marvel.com
Captain Britain Weekly at Tainthemeat.com.
Marvel Heroes Classic Role-playing Game Statistics for Captain Britain
Captain Britain (Brian Braddock) at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Captain Britain at the International Catalogue of Superheroes
Captain Britain (1976) at the Grand Comics Database
Captain Britain (1985) at the Grand Comics Database
Captain Britain at the Big Comic Book DataBase
Captain Britain at the Marvel Directory
Captain Britain at UncannyXmen.net
Captain Britain at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on April 9, 2012.