
Chewie is a fictional alien in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Brian Reed and Roberto De La Torre, first appeared in Giant-Size Ms. Marvel #1 (April 2006). Her alien origin was invented by Kelly Sue DeConnick and David López for Captain Marvel Vol. 8 #2 (June 2014).
An ordinary-looking cat was caught in between an intense fight between Carol Danvers, then known as Ms. Marvel, and Sir Warren Traveler inside a fiery building. Following this, the cat randomly showed up at Carol's apartment while she was about to give an interview. Carol opted to finally adopt the stray and calls her Chewie because she reminded her of the Star Wars character Chewbacca. Since then, Chewie made sporadic appearances as a comforting companion throughout Carol's career as Ms. Marvel and when she finally took up the mantle of Captain Marvel.This all changed when Carol took Chewie into space with her and they encountered the Guardians of the Galaxy. Rocket Raccoon immediately identified Chewie as a Flerken, a species of alien that resembles the Earth cat, but in actuality are dangerous alien creatures. Rocket attempted to kill her before she laid eggs, but Carol stopped him as she did not believe Rocket. He ended up being correct, as Chewie laid 117 eggs that all immediately hatched. Carol, Rocket and their friend Tic had to take Chewie and her offspring to a rescue center where Carol planned to drop them off as she could not take care of them all. However, Chewie teleported back to their ship to be with Carol, leaving her offspring behind.During the "Empyre" storyline, Chewie was instructed by Captain Marvel to keep an eye on her recently-discovered half-sister Lauri-Ell. When the Cotati attack Earth, Chewie assists Captain Marvel and Lauri-Ell by eating some of the Cotati.


=== Chewie in other media ===
A version of the character, renamed Goose in reference to the Top Gun character Nick "Goose" Bradshaw, appears in Captain Marvel. She is portrayed by four different cats: Archie, Reggie, Rizzo and Gonzo. Each one was chosen based on their personalities and for nuzzling, holding, "face" and "jerk" actions. Goose once belonged to Mar-Vell who was posing as an Earth scientist named Wendy Lawson. When the amnesiac Vers (Carol Danvers) and Nick Fury were investigating Lawson, they come across Goose who begins following them. Talos is the first to identify Goose as a Flerken; greatly frightening him. Goose was present when Talos has a parley with Carol Danvers and Nick Fury. During the climax, Goose reveals her true nature by using her abilities to defeat Kree soldiers and swallowing the Tesseract. Despite being very tame and friendly, she unexpectedly slashes Fury's eye, explaining his eye patch in earlier movies. In the post-credits scene, Goose coughs up the Tesseract.


