
Clash (Clayton Cole) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Clash first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 3 #1 (June 2014), and was created by Dan Slott and Ramon Perez. While he had a brief criminal career and was granted a spot on Parker Industries upon his reform, he regressed back to his criminal roots during the Civil War II storyline.At a young age, Clayton Cole was a smart kid who was home-schooled by his mother. During his youth, he saw Peter Parker's Masked Marvel appearance going up against Crusher Hogan in a wrestling match. Since then, he started working on technology so that he can be like the "Masked Marvel". This led him to being Clash.In his first time operating as Clash, Cole came into conflict with Spider-Man. He was defeated by Spider-Man and sentenced to juvenile hall.After being released on parole, Clash was working as henchmen for Owl and other supervillains.During the "Spider-Verse" storyline, Clash's latest employer was the Kree named Doctor Minerva. When Spider-Man was aided in battle Ms. Marvel and discovered that the latter has taken an Inhuman baby from Doctor Minerva, Clash turned against Doctor Minerva. Upon recognizing him and seeing that he has gone straight, Spider-Man offered Clash a job at Parker Industries which he accepted.Clayton's work at Parker Industries involved Spider-Man's globetrotting adventures like helping out against Zodiac to the infiltration of Ghost.During the "Civil War II" storyline, the Inhuman Ulysses Cain had a vision where Cole is Clash again and attacks Spider-Man. Cole later meets Sully back when he used to work for Owl and can't talk long without violating parole. Later on, Clayton's parents are displeased that their son is working as an "office drone" while his father wants Peter to help with their retirement. While showing his latest project for the NYPD to Parker, Clayton is told that he should talk to him if he has any problems. Upon hearing Ulysses' vision of him when he arrives in Peter's office, Clayton resigns from Parker Industries. At Moynihan's Social Club, Clayton tells Sully and another person on how companies like Roxxon Energy Corporation are destroying the planet. Afterwards, Clayton meets Mendel Stromm who makes a reference to how Norman Osborn stole the former's work to be left poor. After providing Clayton with the Tinkerer's number, Mendel gives Clayton a day to consider helping in revenge on Harry Osborn. After calling Tinkerer who makes him an updated Clash suit, Clayton calls up Stromm. In his new suit, Clash arrives at Stromm's apartment where he finds Stromm in the Robot Master appearance and robots. Robot Master then compliments Clash's outfit and claims that Spider-Man won't know what happened. When Clash attacks Robot Master stating that he will look out for himself, Robot Master unleashes his robots on Clash even when Spider-Man arrives. Spider-Man manages to web Robot Master in the air with foam web. When Spider-Man was talking Clash into getting back to the civilized life, Robot Master rises and attacks them. While Clash flies away, Spider-Man defeats Robot Master by ripping the remote control mechanics from within the robot body, deactivating the robot army. When Clayton states that he was trying to protect Parker Industries from Stromm, Spider-Man stated that he caused harm with his technology, caused millions of dollars worth of damages, and violated his parole. Though Parker did talk to Clayton's parole officer where he stated that Clayton acted in self-defense and that Clayton will have to give up on working on sonic technology. Though Clayton doesn't seem to agree with Spider-Man's proposal to discontinue his work on his sonic technology which leads to Ulysses' vision coming true. After battling Spider-Man on the streets, Clash escapes and returns to the Moynihan's Social Club where he decides to be a crime boss.Clash was seen at the closed Now Forever Nightclub where he discusses with his thugs the plans to take back his inventions that he made for Parker Industries to evade them being sold to pay off some debts. When Clash enters the Baxter Building to take back the Sonic Transducer, Harry sees that something is off and alerts Spider-Man and the Human Torch. Due to a self-charging power source getting stuck in the upward cycle, Clash had to work with Spider-Man and Human Torch to deactivate it. While Spider-Man catches Clash's thugs, he allows Clash to get away.During the "Go Down Swinging" storyline, Peter later persuades Clash to look over the Osborn family in light of the Red Goblin's threat. At Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Clash assists Human Torch in protecting the Osborn family from Red Goblin. Their attacks do nothing against Red Goblin because the Goblin formula made the Carnage symbiote immune to fire and sound. Red Goblin then proceeds to defeat Human Torch, Clash, Silk, Miles Morales, and Agent Anti-Venom.Clash possesses a genius-level intellect. He can also utilize sonic technology to various uses.


=== Clash in other media ===
A teenage version of Clayton Cole appears in the Spider-Man animated series episode "Osborn Academy", voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. Using his expertise in sonic technology and "clash tech", he competes with Herman Schultz for a spot in the titular school, but get into a fight with their respective technologies and forcing Spider-Man to intervene. However, the battle is interrupted by the Jackal, who steals Herman and Clayton's technology, but the two help Spider-Man by telling him how to disable them. After Jackal escapes, Spider-Man brings Herman and Clayton back to Osborn Academy to face up to their actions. Norman Osborn takes the blame for driving the two boys into what had transpired, and grants Herman a place in his school.
Clayton Cole appears in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game, voiced by an uncredited voice actor. This incarnation is a street thug and a close friend of Herman Schultz. Spider-Man encounters him and a group of thugs during his search for Ben Parker's killer. After webbing him to a wall, Spider-Man deduces that Cole is not the man he is looking for and intimidates him until Cole tells him to seek out Schultz for more information.


