Coldblood

Coldblood-7 (Eric Savin) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in Marvel Comics Presents vol. 1 #26 (August 1989).
The character was portrayed by James Badge Dale in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 3 (2013).


== Fictional character biography ==
Eric Savin was a lieutenant colonel in the United States Army at Camp Killian, and was put in charge of Project: Ultra-Tech. There he met the love of his life, Lieutenant Gina Dyson. While on patrol, Savin stepped onto a freshly planted mine which blew him into pieces. He was dead for 2.3 minutes. Gina immediately performed cybernetic surgery on him. The surgery was successful — Savin was alive, but resurrected as a cyborg by Mako's Project: Ultra-Tech. Dyson aided him in battling Mako's robots and apparently slew Mako in combat. He then goes by "Coldblood-7" from there on; the 7 in the name was a mere wordplay on his real name as his surname is pronounced in the same way.Coldblood gave in to his cyborg-form at one point but was brought back to his human side with Gina's help. In later missions, Coldblood was hired by Roxxon Oil and had to get a stolen biochemical weapon back from Dr. Jonathan Cayre's lab. Coldblood gained the help of the original Excalibur team and succeeded in his mission.As an urban soldier cyborg, Coldblood operated as a freelance mercenary. He evaded capture by Mechadoom. Coldblood hunted down and fought Deathlok (Michael Collins) in Paris. He then joined forces with Deathlok and Siege in defeating Harlan Ryker's cyber-warriors. Again later, he worked together with fellow cyborg Deathlok, Silver Sable and the Wildpack against the villain group ULTIMATUM.Coldblood was seen together with Monica Rambeau, Wonder Man, Darkhawk, Dracula, Terror, Sleepwalker and Deathlok held hostage because of the Stranger.In the 2006-2007 Civil War storyline, Coldblood was one of the many super-heroes against the Superhuman Registration Act, and was arrested. He is seen being transported to the super-prison 42 built within the Negative Zone, but almost immediately suffers a paralyzing, psychotic break apparently due to the sensory warping effects of this new environment and his own anguish. After being freed during the resistance's exodus, Coldblood is later seen in the background behind Captain America and the others Anti-Registration heroes just before the final confrontation with Iron Man and the Pro-Registration heroes. Coldblood then participated during the battle between both sides, and was later referred to being missing in action.


== Powers and abilities ==
Eric Savin was converted into the cyborg Coldblood-7 by Dr. Gina Dyson and other Project: Ultra-Tech surgeons following designs by Mako. This gave him superhuman strength, reflexes, speed, stamina, durability, and enhanced sensory systems including night vision. He can see into the infrared. Coldblood also has the ability to interface with virtually any computer system, and, by mentally entering "cyberspace", to communicate with such systems. He has a wetware-grafted computer grafted to his organic brain, a plasti-steel-reinforced skeleton, an artificial heart, synthetic hemoglobin, and artificial right eye. His legs are clearly cybernetic, while his arms are composed of synthetic skin and muscle over a plasti-steel skeleton. The right half of his face is an armored cybernetic implant. The exact limits of his strength are not known, but he is able to engage effectively in combat with Deathlok; an arguably much more advanced cyborg. His artificial muscles do eventually fatigue, but he can perform at full exertion for many hours without tiring. The organic portions of Coldblood's body still require food, drink, oxygen and sleep; however his artificial blood and organs grant him considerable resistance to diseases and radiation. His in-built computer analyses his sensory input; tracks targets and is capable of seeing through illusions, detecting holograms and so forth. It requires a recharge of electricity every twelve months of active service. The portion of Coldblood's organic brain that accessed his personal memories was removed during surgery that made him into a cyborg.
Coldblood wears body armor and uses conventional firearms, including a .357 automatic gun implanted in his artificial left hand. Mako and Project: Ultra-Tech also specially designed a high speed automobile for him, with built-in guns. It can be either remote controlled by a device in Coldblood's left wrist, or automatically by his in-built computer.
Coldblood is an excellent hand-to-hand combatant, highly trained in commando fighting and is a superb marksman with conventional firearms.


== In other media ==
James Badge Dale portrays a loose adaption of Eric Savin in the 2013 Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 3. This version is a former Lieutenant Colonel who is Aldrich Killian's right-hand man, having undergone the Extremis treatment to boost his combat skills and give himself various fire-based powers and a regenerative healing factor. Savin turns Jack Taggart into a human bomb as part of a terrorist attack, using his regenerative powers to survive before leading an assault on Tony Stark's mansion, though they fail to kill Stark. He accompanies Ellen Brandt to Tennessee to recover evidence involving an Extremis test subject, though Stark is able to kill Brandt and fight Savin off. After James Rhodes is captured, Savin uses the Iron Patriot armor to impersonate Rhodes and board Air Force One to kidnap President Matthew Ellis. While he succeeds in this task, Iron Man kills Savin before he can escape.
The Iron Man 3 iteration of Eric Savin is featured in the Facebook game Marvel Avengers Alliance. In the 9th Spec Ops mission, Savin steals the Iron Patriot armor as a boss character on the Mandarin's behalf.


== References ==


== External links ==
Coldblood at Marvel.com
Coldblood-7 at Marvel Database on Wikia