Doctor Sun

Doctor Sun is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is a cyborg who fed on human blood, and has come into conflict with Blade, Nova and the Fantastic Four.


== Publication history ==
Doctor Sun first appeared in Tomb of Dracula #16-17 (January–February 1974), and was created by Marv Wolfman and Gene Colan.The character subsequently appeared in The Tomb of Dracula #19-21 (April–June 1974), #26-28 (November 1974-January 1975), #37-42 (October 1975-March 1976), Doctor Strange #14 (May 1976), The Man Called Nova #22-25 (1979), Fantastic Four #206 (May 1979). #208-209 (July–August 1979), and #217 (April 1980).
Doctor Sun received an entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #17.


== Fictional character biography ==
Doctor Sun was born in Peking, the People’s Republic of China, and was working as a scientist during the Cultural Revolution. Sun devised a program whereby a human brain could be removed from its body and supported indefinitely in a life support system. A political enemy managed to sentence Sun to death, then decided that Sun should be the test subject of his own program.
The initial operation succeeded better than expected. Sun's disembodied brain was placed within a robotic chassis.  When Sun's mind was connected to a computer bank, he suddenly developed psionic powers. He attacked the doctors, then forced the survivors to serve him. He kept his survival and powers a secret from the Chinese government and eventually left China completely.
Because of his dependence on human blood, Dr. Sun became involved with the study of real vampires. He decided that a vampiric army could serve him and conquer the world, but first he needed to conquer the vampires. He fought both Dracula and Blade a number of times, drained most of Dracula's powers, and even managed to kill him once, with the help of his minion Lucas Brand.After Dracula revived and defeated his plans, Dr. Sun switched tactics. He discovered Nova's link to the supercomputers of Xandar. He captured Nova and intended to plug into the computers from Earth. When the Sphinx commandeered Nova's ship directly to Xandar, Sun abandoned his body and invaded the Xandarian computers directly. When the Fantastic Four later arrived with H.E.R.B.I.E., Sun downloaded his mind into the robot's body. Upon returning to Earth, he tried to destroy the FF by turning their headquarters against them. He took possession of the Baxter Building's computer system. This freed H.E.R.B.I.E., who flew into the computer bank where Sun was isolated.  Dr. Sun was presumed destroyed in the resultant explosion.


== Powers and abilities ==
Doctor Sun's disembodied brain has been placed within a robotic chassis. He gained psionic powers after his mind was connected to a computer bank.
His robotic body provided him with super strength and nigh invulnerability.


== References ==


== External links ==
Doctor Sun at the Marvel Database Project