Domino (comics)

Domino (Neena Thurman)  is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is best known as a member of the mutant team X-Force. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist/co-writer Rob Liefeld, Domino made her first full cover story appearance in X-Force #8 (March 1992) as an original member of the Wild Pack team led by the mutant Cable.In addition to her exceptional marksmanship and hand-to-hand skills, Domino possesses mutant probability-altering powers, similar to those of the mutant Longshot. She often uses her skills as a mercenary, but has also been the partner, confidante, and love interest of the superhero Cable, a lieutenant in his militant group X-Force, and a member of the X-Men.
Domino is played by Zazie Beetz in the film Deadpool 2.
She also appears in certain video games, such as Marvel Strike Force, Marvel Future Fight, and more.


== Publication history ==
Apart from being a mainstay character in the first series of X-Force, Domino has had two limited self-titled series, one of which had her teaming with Puck against Lady Deathstrike and Donald Pierce. The second revealed her childhood.
The first female Domino to appear in Marvel comics was not the genuine Neena Thurman.  A Domino imposter, a mutant shapeshifter named Copycat, first appeared in The New Mutants #98 (February 1991), and continued to assume Neena's role in X-Force for a time.  The real Domino was first published in the main flashback story recalled by Cable in X-Force, vol. 1 #8 (March  1992).  Her current narrative, brief cameo, second appearance was published on the last page of X-Force #11 (June 1992).
Domino received two self-titled limited series.  The first came in 1997 and ran for 3 issues. The next ran for four issues in 2003. She has also appeared in a number of issues of Cable & Deadpool (Marvel, 2004/2006 series), and joined the first Wolverine-led X-Force as of X-Force, vol. 3 #8 (December 2008).Domino appeared in her own three-issue miniseries with Wolverine entitled X-Force: Sex and Violence, written by Christopher Yost and Craig Kyle and drawn by Gabriele Dell'Otto. The story centers upon Domino and Wolverine's mission to resolve a situation from Domino's recent past. Chris Yost has said, "It's a chance for us to go in-depth into a couple of the characters. In the story, Domino has a hit put out on her and Wolverine finds out about it. Essentially, it's the two of them going out to get that hit removed." Yost adds that the characters are up against the worst killers on the planet.Domino was part of the main roster in Cable and X-Force (by Dennis Hopeless and Salvador Larroca), from 2012 to 2014.  She guest stars in the 2014 X-Force, beginning in issue #7.Domino starred in her own series again starting in 2018, which led into a limited series in 2019 titled Domino: Hotshots where she leads an all-female team.  These were written by Gail Simone and drawn by David Baldeon.


== Fictional character biography ==
The woman who would become known as Domino is actually the result of a top-secret government breeding program intended to develop the perfect weapon. Domino was the only test subject to survive, but her "luck" power was deemed a failure at meeting the project's goals. Her biological mother broke her out of the project and left her with Father Rudolpho Boschelli in the Church of the Sacred Heart in Chicago. 
Domino eventually left the Church and became a mercenary. One of her first jobs was to stop "Operation: Jericho" which was a remote-controlled warbot project. Domino wrecked the robot, but in the process fried the mind of the soldier controlling it. She was then assigned to guard the hard working and innovative Dr. Milo Thurman, whose analytical ability made him too dangerous for the government to let roam free. Somehow, Domino and Thurman fell in love and were married. Due to Thurman's love of Dante's Inferno, he called Domino "Beatrice". The two separated after a raid on the facility by AIM members, with Milo believing Domino had been killed during the altercation.


=== Six Pack ===
Domino helped found the mercenary band Six Pack, which introduced her to the mutant time-traveler Cable. Domino worked with the Six Pack for some time, taking on many missions for cash. The Six Pack was very brutal in their adventures, often shooting down entire crowds of people who got in their way. The team, also known as the Wild Pack, went on missions in Iran, and participated in a raid on a HYDRA base, which Domino participated in. During her time with the Wild Pack, she had her first confrontations with Stryfe (Cable's evil clone) in Afghanistan and Uruguay.


=== Replacement ===
When Cable became the leader of the New Mutants following their break from the X-Men, a mutant named Copycat impersonated Domino and joined as his field leader and stayed with the team as they changed from the New Mutants to X-Force. When it was revealed that the real Domino was actually a prisoner of the supervillain Tolliver for over a year, X-Force rejected Domino's imposter and, with Cable's reassurances, planned to rescue the real Domino and welcome her onto the team.
Meanwhile, the real Domino learned of Tolliver's destruction of X-Force's Adirondack base and planned her escape. Cable found her at Tolliver's Italian home, along with her apparently murdered double. Domino was accidentally freed by Deadpool, whom she shot. Cable sent her to find X-Force. She escaped on Tolliver's helicopter and survived a fall from Tolliver's helicopter into the sea. She found X-Force and joined the team.


=== Joining X-Force ===
Domino stayed with the team for most of its existence, becoming its de facto leader when Cable left the team on several occasions. For a while, she was a prisoner of the forces of Bastion, which severely affected her mentally and physically. During X-Force's existence, Domino had several solo adventures. During one, she was forced to kill her mentally ill, ex–Six Pack partner Grizzly.


=== X-Corporation ===
When X-Force briefly disbanded, Domino joined the X-Corporation. While working in their Hong Kong branch, Domino's partner, Risque, was murdered and she summoned the core group of the X-Men to help investigate. Together the mutants uncovered the truth behind John Sublime's "Third Species" movement: he was harvesting body parts from living mutants to create his U-Men. They also helped free the mutant named Xorn.During her solo period, Domino began to search for her mother, Beatrice, and clues to her past. In her search, Domino learned that the "Project: Armageddon", was still active. Led to a secret base in Florida, Domino finds a mutant boy named Lazarus who had the same eye tattoo. Lazarus imprisoned Domino there for observation. Lazarus turns out to be her half-brother with powerful emotion controlling abilities and the true result of the Perfect Weapon program. Soon after attempting to liberate him, a fanatical group of quasi-priests called the Armajesuits, who were against the project, arrive to kill Lazarus and prevent him from reaching his full development. Domino discovers that her mother leads the Armajesuits and is forced to shoot her to save Lazarus's life. She takes Lazarus to Father Boschelli and the Church she was raised in for sanctuary, although unbeknown to her, Beatrice subsequently abducts Lazarus from there.


=== Cable and Deadpool ===
Later, she was employed by S.H.I.E.L.D. as a member of the new Six Pack. Alongside G. W. Bridge, Hammer, Solo, Anaconda, and Constrictor, she attacked Cable at his community Providence, but she quickly defected to his side after the Six Pack was defeated by Cable and Deadpool. Domino followed Deadpool to Rumekistan, where she assassinated the country's dictator, Flag-Smasher, only to find out it was part of a plan to install Cable as leader of that nation. After a conversation with Citizen V, she then attempted to kill Cable, believing that he would lead them to ruin. 


=== "Civil War" ===
During the 2006 "Civil War" storyline, Domino, Shatterstar and Caliban, under the X-Force name, led an attack on the Xavier Institute and break out more than half of the 198, bringing the tension between the 198 and O*N*E to a head. After her other team, the Six Pack disbands, she and Cable are allies on Providence, until a fight with Hecatomb causes the island to sink into the ocean, leaving Cable presumed dead.Domino is later recruited by G. W. Bridge along with Silver Sable and the Contessa Valentina Allegra de Fontaine to track down the Punisher. When a fake Punisher started targeting civilians, she was the only team member to believe in Castle's innocence.


=== X-Force ===
After the Punisher stint, Domino finds Wolverine and X-Force in Tokyo and joins them in trying to capture Vanisher. Questions to Domino's authenticity have been raised when her luck powers fail her several times.On behalf of Wolverine, Domino is asked to stop in a cemetery to deliver flowers to a deceased loved one. She encounters Spiral, Chimera and Lady Deathstrike who have dug up Revanche's body. After a brief fight, she wounds Chimera and the women escape with the body, but Domino manages to replace Jean Grey's body before the Red Queen could take it as a host.Domino and Wolverine go on a mission to resolve a situation from Domino's past.


=== 2010 - present ===
Domino is the first person to learn Red Hulk's identity and is marked for death. Doc Samson provides Red Hulk with a list of people (Deadpool, the Punisher, Thundra and Elektra) to kill her. When the group arrives, they find her in a bar with the members of X-Force. Afterwards, she reveals it was her husband who named her Domino.Domino appears post-"Regenesis" as a regular member of Storm's security team, tasked with the responsibility of safeguarding Utopia from all foreign threats.. She fights with them during the war against the Avengers.After the events of the 2012 "Avengers vs. X-Men" storyline, Domino left Utopia like all the mutants who lived there. She later joins Cable's new X-Force group.As part of the 2016 Marvel NOW! branding, Domino forms a second incarnation of the Mercs for Money that consisted of Gorilla-Man, Machine Man, and Masacre. When they arrive to help Deadpool when it comes to freeing Negasonic Teenage Warhead from Umbral Dynamics, Domino stated to Deadpool that they arrived to help and that she is calling the shots on the Mercs for Money.Domino appears as a target for the newly revamped Weapon X Program and is opted to join Old Man Logan's new team.For the "Dawn of X" relaunch, she joins the new X-Force team, which now operates as an intelligence agency for Krakoa.


== Powers and abilities ==
Domino is a mutant with the ability to subconsciously and psionically initiate random telekinetic acts that affect probability in her favor by making improbable (but not impossible) things occur within her line of sight, thus causing her to have "good luck" and her opponents to have "bad luck". This "probability field" phenomenon can be anything from an enemy's equipment failure to hitting just the right switch with a stray shot to shut down an overloading nuclear reactor. The full extent of her powers is still unknown.This subconsciously controlled talent is triggered when she is in a stressful situation (such as fighting or escaping). This effect constantly emanates from her body at all times and is completely subconscious. However, it is also largely participatory—in order for the luck to take effect, Domino herself must engage in an action whose chance she can affect.As a byproduct of her abilities, Domino's cerebral cortex emits a current of bioelectric pulses down her spine to instinctively guide her movements during such situations, which has the added effect of augmenting her natural reflexes and reactions to superhuman levels.During the 198 rebellion at the Xavier Institute, Domino was able to consciously utilize her abilities in order to affect the probability fields of storm clouds above a group of ONE Sentinels, calling down lightning to strike them.Domino is also a superb marksman with various firearms, highly skilled athlete, excellent swimmer, and adept in the use of explosives. She has extensive training in various armed combat techniques and the martial arts, with Olympic-gold level athletic and acrobatic ability. She also seems to be fluent in multiple languages.Domino wears body armor of unknown composition and carries conventional firearms. She has also used a staff that fires unspecified ammunition, which can be used for balance when jumping and is equipped with sensors. During her time as an X-Corporation operative, Domino wore contact lenses designed by Forge, capable of night vision or, with a triple blink, firing a high-intensity laser beam.


== Other characters named Domino ==
A male character named Domino (Dominic Dunsinane) aided the Scourge of the Underworld as an informant. He was killed by a rogue Scourge agent named Bloodstain in U.S. Agent, vol. 1 #4 (September  1993) (Marvel Comics).


== Other versions ==
In the alternate timeline of the "Age of Apocalypse" storyline, Domino was a sadistic bounty hunter working for Apocalypse, alongside her two henchmen, Caliban and Grizzly. Domino was summoned by the Dark Lord to hunt down Nate Grey. Even though Domino's powers gave her the advantage, she was killed by Nate, who destroyed her mind by exposing her to all the suffering she had caused.In the Earth X storyline, an overweight Domino, still a member of X-Force, was one of the many people who was a pawn of the Skull.In an alternate future seen in a 2005 X-Force storyline, Domino takes on the identity of Stryfe. Coming to Earth-616, she rebuilt the Mutant Liberation Front and assisted Cable against Skornn. Her Earth designation is Earth-5014.In the Ultimate Marvel Universe, Domino was introduced in the second part of the "Cable" storyline, that can be found in Ultimate X-Men #76 (January  2007). Once again, Domino appears to be part of Cable's team and looks just like her original counterpart.In the alternate future of the X-Men: The End, Domino, Rictor, and Feral are the only three survivors of a brutal attack directed against X-Force. They are ambushed by shapeshifting enemies and Domino's luck runs out when a Super Skrull posing as Wolverine drives blades through her chest.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Domino appears in several quick cameos throughout the run of the animated X-Men series, voiced by Jennifer Dale.
Domino appears in Wolverine and the X-Men, voiced by Gwendoline Yeo. She first appears in "Hindsight" [Pt. 2] as a member of the Brotherhood of Mutants, and later appears in the alternate future as a member of Professor X's X-Men.


=== Film ===

Zazie Beetz portrays Domino in Deadpool 2. Domino is recruited into X-Force by Deadpool to assist him in rescuing the young mutant Russell Collins from the future soldier Cable. Her ability is simply described as being 'lucky'. Her luck-based mutant powers allow her to survive the parachute jump in which all the members of X-Force except Deadpool were killed. She also plays a role in the final fight at the orphanage by saving the mutant children who were being tortured by the Headmaster.


=== Video games ===
Domino makes a cameo appearance in Deadpool's ending in Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3.
Domino appears as a supporting character in Deadpool, where Gwendoline Yeo reprises her role from Wolverine and the X-Men.
Domino appears in Marvel Heroes as a team-up character, voiced by Vanessa Marshall.
Domino is a playable character in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Domino is a playable character in Marvel: Contest of Champions.
Domino appears as playable character in Marvel Future Fight.
Domino appears as playable character in Marvel Puzzle Quest.
Domino appears as a playable skin in Fortnite Battle Royale.


== References ==


== External links ==
Domino (Neena Thurman) at the Marvel Universe wiki
UncannyXmen.Net Spotlight On Domino
Domino on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki