
Fang is a Lupak who was a member of the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. He joined the other Imperial Guardsmen in battle against the X-Men on behalf of Emperor D'Ken on a nameless Shi'ar Empire planet. He was attacked by Wolverine, who defeated him and stripped him of his costume, using it to sneak up on the other Imperial Guardsmen.Fang later became a "Borderer": a Guardsman stationed on one of the Shi'ar's conquered worlds to help its governor enforce Shi'ar law there. Fang and a small number of other Guardsmen became renegades and turned traitor, betraying the Shi'ar Empire by serving Deathbird in her attempt to overthrow her sister Princess-Majestrix Lilandra. This incident involves Lord Samedar attempting to use some of the outlaw Guard in order to attack the Earth. His faction is opposed by other Shi'ar and the X-Men, the renegade Guardsmen battling the loyal Guardsmen, and Fang fighting Nightcrawler during the conflict. The Brood interfere with a concussion-style bomb secretly hidden in the midst of the battle.Soon after this incident, Fang is apparently slain when the Brood uses him as a host body for the egg of one of their young on the "Broodworld", former home-world of the Brood. His body is consumed and transformed by the Brood embryo implanted inside him, and the resulting Brood alien later fought Wolverine who killed it.In Untold Tales of Captain Marvel — which takes place before his first encounter with the X-Men — Fang, the Guard, Marvel and the Kree face an attack by the Brood. A small division of the Guard, Deathbolt, Smasher, Fang and Oracle had been selected to guard the personage of Deathbird, the current ruler of the Shi'ar empire. They allied, then fought with the Kree after the latter came to their assistance against a murderous attack from the Skrulls.Fang is seen as loyal Shi'ar warrior when they go to war with the Inhuman-led Kree. One of many battles in this war led Fang and many others to the base of the Guardians of the Galaxy, a giant flowing head called Knowhere.Fang is one of the many Shi'ar soldiers assigned to team up with the Starjammers to investigate 'The Fault'. This is a space-time anomaly that not only threatens Shi'ar space, but all of reality.Fang would reappear years later on Earth alive and well, he came to visit Wolverine only to discover that his old buddy had died. Fang eventually revealed all his history with Logan to X-23 even revealing how he came back to life after being killed by the Brood. According to Fang himself, the Lupak reproduce through cloning and keep mental templates of the citizens on file. When one of them dies, a new one is made. He even reveals to X-23 that while technically he's not the Fang Wolverine met since he's a clone, he is still the one Wolverine knew.Fang assists the Guardians of the Galaxy and Laura Kinney, who was operating as Wolverine, in stopping a Brood infestation of a scientific facility.When the original Fang was killed, another Lupak named Nev-Darr was enlisted to take the place of the original Fang on the Imperial Guard. When that one was killed a third one took his place.


