
Flint (Jaycen) is an Inhuman in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Charles Soule and Joe Madureira, first appeared in Inhuman #3 (October 2014).
Flint was a young African-born American boy named Jason who was adopted by a white man named Martin, and his wife. Though Jason loved his parents, he felt out of place, mostly because in the community he grew up in he was the only black person. One day, the Terrigen mists arrived and Martin, who was actually an Inhuman, told Jason to embrace their destiny. Jason emerged from his cocoon and was immediately recruited by Lash. Lash renames him Korvostax and forces him and the rest of his team to fight the Royal Family, feeling that they were unworthy of being Inhumans. Lash was defeated by Medusa and Jason opted to join the Inhumans in New Attilan. During the fight, he discovered that he had geokinesis, the ability to control the earth and rocks, and could also encase himself in a rock-like body.While in New Attilan, he learns that his biological family is still in Africa. Soon after he takes the name Flint, Jason finally visits Utolan, his birthplace, and discovers his birth mother and sister, Irellis and Ikelli, respectively. Out of respect, Jason changes the spelling of his name to Jaycen. He also starts a relationship with fellow Inhuman Iso.Flint accompanies Crystal's team in investigating the strange skyscrapers in China. When the skyscraper causes Collective Man to lose his powers and split into the five brothers, one of them is nearly killed by Flint.


=== Flint in other media ===
Flint appears in Avengers: Ultron Revolution, voiced by James C. Mathis III. In the episode "Civil War, Part 1: The Fall of Attilan", he is one of several new Inhumans who move to Attilan to study and hone his powers. In the episode "Civil War, Part 2: The Mighty Avengers", Flint, Iso, and Haechi attempt to escape Ultron and the Mighty Avengers, who are trying to capture Inhumans who refuse to sign for mandatory registration. In the episode "Civil War, Part 3: The Drums of War", Flint is among the Inhumans that Ultron brainwashed into attacking humans.
Flint appears in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., portrayed by Coy Stewart. This iteration is a young inhabitant of a former S.H.I.E.L.D. base called the Lighthouse, which the Kree took over, decades in the future. He first appears in the fifth season episode, "A Life Spent", in a minor role before returning in "Fun & Games" when he is subjected to Terrigenesis by the Kree before he is rescued by Yo-Yo Rodriguez. He soon discovers his geokinetic powers, which he uses to kill a hostile Lighthouse inhabitant who held Yo-Yo, Mack, and Phil Coulson hostage in self-defense. When a close friend of his, Tess, is killed by the Kree to draw him out, Flint uses his powers to fight back, only to be taken out before Coulson's team rescues him. Flint, Yo-Yo, Mack, and a revived Tess manage to successfully rescue all the living humans on the Lighthouse from Kree leader, Kasius', wrath before Flint uses his powers to create a portal so the S.H.I.E.L.D. team can return to their time. Though Mack and Yo-Yo ask him to come with them, Flint chooses to stay to look after the escaped Inhumans and humans and help rebuild the destroyed Earth. In the season six episode "From the Ashes", Izel uses the energies of her three Di'Allis' to create a clone of Flint from Mack and Yo-Yo's fears and memories. before possessing him to use his abilities to recreate the Di'Allis and forcing Yo-Yo to injure him. After a brief reunion with Deke Shaw, Agent Piper helps Flint escape to get his leg mended. In the series finale, "What We're Fighting For", Flint makes a minor appearance protecting Leo Fitz, Jemma Simmons, and Enoch while they helped their friends defeat the Chronicoms. A year later, he became a student of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Coulson Academy under Melinda May.


