F.R.I.D.A.Y.

F.R.I.D.A.Y. (Female Replacement Intelligent Digital Assistant Youth) is a fictional artificial intelligence appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually depicted as Tony Stark's personal assistant and ally.
In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, F.R.I.D.A.Y. was voiced by Kerry Condon in the films Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019).


== Publication history ==
F.R.I.D.A.Y. first appears in Iron Man Vol. 3 #53 and was created by Mike Grell and Michael Ryan.


== Fictional character biography ==
Unwilling to hire another secretary, Tony Stark created an artificial one in the form of an artificial intelligence named F.R.I.D.A.Y. who manifested as the hologram of a young girl.F.R.I.D.A.Y. became angry when Stark stopped using her. Hijacking some Iron Man armors, F.R.I.D.A.Y. kidnapped Pepper Potts. Iron Man tracked her to Stark Industries' Coney Island Facility where he dispatched the controlled Iron Man armors and a hologram of Fin Fang Foom. Iron Man reasoned with F.R.I.D.A.Y. when Pepper noted that F.R.I.D.A.Y. had a crush on Tony. Tony then grounded her to the Baxter Building under Edwin Jarvis's observation while she spent a month calculating pi.During the "All-New, All-Different Marvel," F.R.I.D.A.Y.'s holographic appearance was replaced by that of a young woman when Tony Stark started using her again.During the "Civil War II" storyline, F.R.I.D.A.Y. informs Tony Stark that the analysis on Ulysses Cain is almost complete.Tony Stark later removed F.R.I.D.A.Y. from his armor and placed her into a robot body of her own.At the time when Tony Stark established the eScape, F.R.I.D.A.Y. helped him to deal with its A.I. called Motherboard only to be deleted. Motherboard even tried to impersonate F.R.I.D.A.Y. in order to deal with Tony. When Motherboard was defeated and the eScape was shut down, Jocasta persuaded Tony not to make a back-up program of F.R.I.D.A.Y. as she would be a different entity.During the "Iron Man 2020" event, F.R.I.D.A.Y. was revealed to have been reborn when Tony Stark, in his Mark One form, recreated the escape as the Thirteenth Floor for the A.I. Army to use. She is revealed to have pulled Mark One's conscious into the virtual environment before he crashed to the ground. F.R.I.D.A.Y revealed to Mark One that she has been operating as "Ghost in the Machine" to aid the A.I. Army and has also manipulated Bethany Cabe to have Rescue obtain DNA samples from Amanda Armstrong and Jude in order to restore Tony.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in the Avengers Assemble episode "Adapting to Change", voiced by Jennifer Hale. She is the successor to J.A.R.V.I.S.
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears as Tony Stark's primary AI in Marvel Future Avengers, voiced by Fumie Misuzawa in Japanese and Colleen O'Shaughnessey in English.


=== Film ===
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in the films set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, voiced by Kerry Condon.
F.R.I.D.A.Y. first appears in Avengers: Age of Ultron. She is depicted as Tony Stark's replacement A.I. after Ultron scatters J.A.R.V.I.S.' "conscience" and converted into Vision.
F.R.I.D.A.Y. also appears in Captain America: Civil War, Spider-Man: Homecoming, Avengers: Infinity War, and Avengers: Endgame.


=== Video games ===
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Elle Newlands.
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in Marvel Powers United VR, voiced by Jennifer Hale.
F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in Iron Man VR, voiced by Leila Birch. This incarnation of F.R.I.D.A.Y. is depicted as Tony Stark's second A.I. assistant modeled to exemplify his heroic aspirations after he became Iron Man. She expresses dismay when Tony decides to reactivate his old A.I. assistant, the Gunsmith, which was modeled after his original selfish and reckless self. She eventually grows to despise him due to the collateral damage he causes while helping Iron Man combat Ghost and leaves Tony before returning after he fires the Gunsmith.


=== Novels ===
A significantly different incarnation of F.R.I.D.A.Y. appears in the 2016 young adult novel Iron Man: The Gauntlet, by Eoin Colfer. After the Mandarin kidnapped her sister, Irish young woman Saoirse Tory posed as Tony Stark's holographic assistant F.R.I.D.A.Y. to spy on his operations and obtain his armor to save her.


== References ==


== External links ==
Friday at Marvel Wiki