


=== François LeBlanc ===
François LeBlanc first appeared in Daredevil #10-11 (October, December 1965), and was created by Stan Lee and Wally Wood.
LeBlanc, a man with Olympic-level leaping skills, is among those recruited by the Organizer, secretly a candidate for the New York mayorship, to form the Ani-Men. The team goes on missions to undermine the current administration. Daredevil defeats them and they all go to prison.The Ani-Men later work for Count Nefaria, whose scientists submit the unwitting Ani-Men to processes that temporarily give them superhuman powers and animal-like forms. LeBlanc gains superhuman strength and stamina, along with frog-like legs. They invade the Cheyenne Mountain missile base and fight the X-Men.After they lose their powers, the team is sent to kill Tony Stark. However, they are killed by a bomb that Spymaster had planted, also to kill Stark.


=== Eugene Patilio ===
Eugene Patilio first appeared in Marvel Team-Up #121 (Sept 1982). He was created by J. M. DeMatteis, who later described him as one of his "all-time favorite" characters.Eugene Patilio was born in Brooklyn, New York, the son of Vincent Patilio (the supervillain Leap-Frog). After several defeats by Daredevil, Iron Man, and Spider-Man, which eventually landed him in jail, Vincent eventually decided to retire and go straight. Eugene dons his father's costume as the Fabulous Frog-Man in an attempt to be a crime-fighter. His two major enemy villains are the White Rabbit, a comedic villain inspired by the Alice in Wonderland character, and the Walrus, a dimwitted character who essentially had the proportionate abilities of a walrus (tough skin and super-strength).Frog-Man has a tendency to capture villains simply by dumb luck. Eugene's inability to fully pilot his automated Frog-Man costume causes him to wildly bounce around, defeating villains by crashing into them. The White Rabbit and Walrus team up to get revenge on Frog-Man, going on a rampage and luring not only Eugene, but also his father and Spider-Man. Once again, however, they are defeated by Eugene crashing into them.He, Spider-Kid, and Toad briefly form a super-team called the Misfits.Eugene is later recruited as part of the Fifty-State-Initiative program, joining the team Action Pack. During the Secret Invasion, this Patilio is revealed to be a Skrull infiltrator. After the invasion is over, the real Frog-Man is shown in a support group meeting for people who had been replaced by Skrulls.During the "Fear Itself" storyline, Frog-Man appears at a meeting held by Prodigy regarding magical hammers that have crashed into the earth. He is part of Gravity's team and helps battle Crossbones. He is later seen with the team during a massive earthquake caused by a battle between Gravity and Hardball and helps them in their fight against Thor Girl, who had recovered her designated powers.During the "Spider-Island" storyline, Frog-Man witnesses terrorists with spider-powers attacking the United Nations and springs into action, teaming up with Ms. Marvel, Hawkeye, and Jessica Jones against a spider-empowered Flag-Smasher, gaining the three heroes' grudging respect.Vincent Patilio, although proud of his son, is also very worried about him risking his life, to the extent that at one point he publicly humiliates Eugene to prevent him from joining the Defenders, dragging him home in front of the team and the media.During the "Hunted" storyline, Frog-Man is among the animal-themed characters captured by Taskmaster and Black Ant for Kraven the Hunter's Great Hunt that was sponsored by Arcade's company Arcade Industries. He was seen watching Spider-Man fight Scorpion until the Hunter-Bots created by Arcade Industries arrive. He was then seen fleeing the Hunter-Bots. Frog-Man later joins the animal-themed characters in attacking the Hunter-Bots. He was later freed when Kraven the Hunter had Arcade lower the forcefield around Central Park.Although he has no powers, Eugene's frog suit contains electrical coils on the soles of its flippers, allowing him to leap great distances. It is internally padded, enabling him to bounce off objects with little danger.


==== Frog-Man in other media ====
The Eugene Patillo version of Frog-Man briefly appears in the Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes episode "The Cure". After the Thing is "cured" of his condition, Patillo auditions to become his replacement in the Fantastic Four, only to be rejected.


