
Gaia, also known as the Guardian of the Universal Amalgamator, is a fictional superhero, depicted as possibly being a mutant or extraterrestrial. Created by Larry Hama, she first appeared in Generation X #37.
Not much is known about Gaia's origin besides her having spent thousands of years chained to the Universal Amalgamator at the end of Time, a device that would be used to merge all sentient consciousnesses into one being. Gaia was apparently the safeguard that was supposed to prevent the Amalgamator from being activated by malicious people. She even claimed that her entire galaxy was wiped out at one point for her refusing to activate the Amalgamator.However, when M-Plate, the synthesis of Emplate and M, tried to have Synch use his power to tap into Gaia's and activate the Amalgamator, Everett refused. The Citadel of the Universal Amalgamator began to crumble around them and Generation X wanted to leave, but Synch went back, along with Penance, to save Gaia. Banshee thought him lost but Gaia knew of a secret portal that was hidden underneath the altar that she had been chained to and—coincidentally—led back near the Academy. With the Amalagamator destroyed, Gaia was freed from her responsibility and ran off to live a life that was now her own.When she was seen next, she had gotten into an accident with a sports car and had pink hair. The policeman who came to the wreck knew of the Academy, and suggested that she be put into their hands. She lost some of her abilities to the Shadow King's telepathic shockwave, and stayed with Gen X, hoping to sort out that difficulty with their help.Gaia formally enrolled in the Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters, but left after a short time, saying that she wanted to experience Earth, not just learn about it.It is unknown if Gaia was one of the 90–95% of mutants who lost their mutant powers on M-Day.Gaia has been shown to have a degree of superhuman strength, limited invulnerability, telepathy, psychokinesis, and the ability to draw on an extra-dimensional source of matter and energy in order to create or reshape anything according to her will.  She is capable of warping reality to a limited degree, although she is largely inexperienced with this power and its use requires great concentration. Gaia also appears to be either extremely long lived or completely immortal as she stated that she visited Earth 600 years ago and still has the appearance of a teenage girl.


