

Golden Archer (Wyatt McDonald) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema and first appeared in Avengers #85 (Feb. 1971). He is a member of the Squadron Supreme. He has also gone by the codenames Hawkeye and Black Archer.
Wyatt McDonald, an Australian cab driver in his civilian guise, was a master archer with a large selection of specialized trick arrows. He originally began his career as a masked superhero under the identity of Hawkeye. He developed a relationship with Linda Lewis (a.k.a. Lady Lark), a former vocalist whose vocal cords had been altered by the criminal mastermind Dr. Decibel. Together they fought crime in the city of New Babylon, eventually gaining enough fame to draw the attention of the superhero group Squadron Supreme, who invited them to join.
The character first appeared when Avengers Vision, Scarlet Witch, Quicksilver, and Goliath (Clint Barton) end up in the Squadron Supreme's universe and briefly battle them.Alongside the Squadron, he falls under the influence of the Serpent Cartel. The team travels to the mainstream Marvel Universe and battle the Avengers. As there is already a Hawkeye in that universe, McDonald changes his name to the Golden Archer to "avoid confusion", picking a name that the Avenger Hawkeye had once used as an alias. The Avengers eventually convince the Squadron that the Serpent Cartel is evil, and the team denounces them.Alongside the Squadron, he is mind-controlled by the Overmind. The team is freed by the Defenders, and the two teams battle the Overmind and Null, the Living Darkness.To repair the global chaos wrought by the Overmind, the Golden Archer joins in the Squadron's decision to take control of the United States to implement the "Utopia Program," and with the rest of the team publicly revealed his secret identity. Wyatt was captured, and nearly executed by vigilantes.McDonald's relationship with Lady Lark becomes strained as she develops romantic feelings for fellow Squadron member Blue Eagle. McDonald proposes to Linda, but she rejects him. Desperate to maintain their relationship, he uses a behavior-modifying machine, intended to reform criminals, to make her love him, completely changing her personality in the process.He is soon captured by the Squadron's enemies, the Institute of Evil. The Institute tortures the Archer into revealing the location of the Squadron's new base of operations, and attack and capture the Squadron. They use the behavior modification device on the heroes to make them be on their side, but it is revealed that after the Archer had used the machine on Lady Lark the machine had been modified so it couldn't affect the Squadron members.The Golden Archer later admits what he did to Lady Lark, and the team votes to expel him.He later changes his name to the Black Archer and joinS the Redeemers, a team founded by Nighthawk to oppose the Squadron's domination of the planet. The teams eventually battle each other, and Black Archer is killed by a blow from Blue Eagle.The Golden Archer has no superhuman powers, but is a superb archer. He uses a customized double-recurve bow, with both conventional arrows and a wide variety of "trick arrows".  He is a good hand-to-hand combatant, trained by Nighthawk.He also wore a protective force field belt, as a Squadron member, designed by Tom Thumb.


=== Other versions of Golden Archer ===
An African-American superhero called Black Archer appears in the Supreme Power: Hyperion miniseries, set in a possible future of the Supreme Power universe.


