Gorr the God Butcher

Gorr the God Butcher is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


== Publication history ==
Jason Aaron and Esad Ribic decided to relaunch the Thor franchise during the Marvel Now initiative. Gorr first appeared in Thor: God of Thunder #2 (January, 2013). This story arc was voted as the 8th best Thor story by Comicbook.com.


== Fictional character biography ==
Gorr grew up on a nameless barren planet. When his mother, mate and children died, he thought gods could not exist and because of that he was outcast by his tribe. When he learned gods did in fact exist but did not help those in need such as his dying family, he vowed to kill them all. He then acquired All-Black the Necrosword from Knull after witnessing Knull in combat with a golden god. He eventually finds young Odinson on Earth in Medieval Iceland. He nearly kills Thor, but a band of Vikings come to rescue him. Gorr escapes, having his arm cut off, but learns he needs help, so he creates an army of shadow berserkers, then slowly and quietly eliminates more and more gods. In the present, Thor notices the missing gods and investigates their disappearances. This brings Gorr and Thor to another battle, but Gorr then teleports into the future, where an aged Thor is the last Asgardian defending the realm against the shadow berserkers. Gorr also brings the young Thor into the future, where his wife and children have seemingly been resurrected and is about to set off the Godbomb. Gorr's son is actually a construct made out of the Necrosword and despises what his father has turned into, so it gives Thor the power to absorb the blast. Thor, from the present then uses the two Mjolnirs to kill Gorr.


== Powers and abilities ==

Gorr possesses the "All-Black the Necrosword", which according to Galactus, "carved the first dawn from the stone of the endless night." The blade was forged by Knull, the progenitor of the Symbiotes, using the head of a killed Celestial. The blade allows its user to create wings, which allow the user to fly at extreme speeds, weapons, and a shroud of Berserkers constructed out of darkness. He can create sharp tendrils that can kill any god, including Asgardians. The blade is later banished into a black hole, but an elderly King Thor uses it to battle Galactus. Gorr also created the Godbomb, an anti-divinity armament designed to kill every god who had or ever would exist. Gorr possesses superhuman strength, durability and endurance and is also virtually immortal.


== References ==


== External links ==
Gorr the God Butcher on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Gorr the God Butcher at Comicvine
Gorr at Comic Book Database