
Grotto is a fictional character appearing in Marvel comics. He was created by Frank Miller and first appeared in Daredevil Vol. 1 #168.
Grotto is a small-time criminal and the frequent partner of Turk Barrett. Like Turk, he works for Eric Slaughter and the Kingpin, resulting in frequent encounters with Daredevil and at one point encountered Elektra. Although generally regarded as unintelligent, Grotto often tries to act as a voice of reason to Turk's aggressive and overconfident behavior such as refusing to escape prison so that they can fill out their time and return to the streets without problem. When the Kingpin returned to San Francisco, Grotto was rehired as one of his elite members.


=== Grotto in other media ===
Grotto, legal name Elliot Grote, appears in the second season of Daredevil, portrayed by McCaleb Burnett. He is a low-ranking member of the Kitchen Irish mob, serving as a driver and occasional assassin for their leader Nesbitt. After Frank Castle attacks a Kitchen Irish meeting, of which Grotto is the sole survivor, Grotto flees to Josie's Bar, coincidentally while Matt Murdock, Karen Page and Foggy Nelson are there. Matt, tipped off by Grotto's adrenaline spike and observing that he's carrying a weapon, approaches Grotto, who in turn asks the Nelson & Murdock trio to get him witness protection. While Karen guards Grotto as he recovers in the hospital from a shrapnel wound he received in the shooting, Frank shows up and makes a second attempt to kill him, but Karen manages to get Grotto out of the hospital and to the 15th Precinct. With Matt recuperating from getting shot in the head by Frank during the attack, Karen and Foggy are left to negotiate a plea deal for Grotto with District Attorney Smanatha Reyes and Assistant District Attorney Blake Tower. As part of the deal, Grotto will give up an associate in the mafia named Edgar Brass in exchange for witness protection. However, Reyes double-crosses Nelson & Murdock, instead using Grotto as bait for Frank, with "Brass" actually being an ESU officer. A firefight breaks out and Grotto flees the scene. He later calls Karen from a payphone to unceremoniously fire the firm, despite Karen's efforts to apologize for Reyes' double-cross. He does not get far, as Frank captures him and takes him to a rooftop where he has already captured and chained up Matt. Frank gives Matt a gun, and the choice of killing either one of them. Matt shoots the chains securing him, but is unable to stop Frank from fatally shooting Grotto. Out of guilt, Matt, Karen and Foggy hold a private funeral for Grotto at Matt's church. In his eulogy, the most positive thing Father Lantom can say about Grotto is that he went to and donated to the church, and he explains to Matt afterwards that if they ignored his criminal past, there would be no learning from it.


