Hammerhead (comics)

Hammerhead is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted as an adversary of the superhero Spider-Man. He is a temperamental mobster who often dresses and acts in the 1920s style, and a prominent member of the Maggia, a fictional organized crime syndicate. Following an accident, he had most of his skull replaced with an inflexible steel alloy by Jonas Harrow, giving his head a flattened shape and near indestructibility, hence his nickname. The Hammerhead crime family, of which he is a high-ranking member and occasional leader, is named after the character. 
Hammerhead has made appearances in several forms of media outside of comics, including animated series and video games. IGN ranked him as Spider-Man's 20th greatest enemy.


== Publication history ==
Hammerhead made his first appearance in The Amazing Spider-Man #113, and was created by writer Gerry Conway and artist John Romita Sr.Conway recalled that Hammerhead "was most directly influenced by the Big Man and the Crime-Master, who were among the first villains in Amazing Spider-Man. One of the more interesting things Stan [Lee], Jack Kirby, and, of course, Steve Ditko did was combining the two different kinds of milieus: superhero and Dick Tracy, with the unusual criminal characters who had some kind of physical deformity... Plus, Hammerhead—I liked [the] name, and John Romita came up with an interesting look.


== Fictional character biography ==
Hammerhead's family immigrated from the Soviet Union to Italy when he was a child. He got help from a man named The General. His father ran a garage in Toirrano, where he insisted the young man speak only in Russian, beating him severely with a mallet when he would not. Although not much is known about his life before he became a criminal and supervillain, he is known to be married and has a sister named Antonia.All the while, Hammerhead dreamed of becoming a gangster. He is eventually recruited into one of the "families" of the criminal organization known as the Maggia when a member oversees Hammerhead murdering a childhood bully and his girlfriend in a theater showing The Godfather Part II. Originally a small-time hitman, Hammerhead quickly rises through the ranks of the Maggia, while hiding the fact that he is actually Russian so he can be "made". In his final test, Hammerhead is brought to his father's garage (with the Maggia apparently unaware of their relationship), where he proceeds to kill his father, while telling him in Russian that he does not truly hate him, and that he made him (Hammerhead) this way.One day, Hammerhead was found beaten, disfigured, and delirious with pain in an alley in New York City's Bowery by Jonas Harrow, a surgeon who had lost his medical license due to his illegal experiments. Seeing the opportunity both to save this man's life and to redeem his reputation, Harrow operated on the gunman for three days, replacing much of his shattered skull with a strong steel alloy. During the surgery, the unconscious thug fixated on the only memory he retained: an image of a poster for a movie called "The Al Capone Mob", which was hanging in the alley where he lay beaten and bloodied before Harrow found him. When he recovered, the memory of the poster and its images of 1930s-era gangsters prompted Hammerhead to start a gang of his own in the style of Capone and other mobsters of the 1920s. He even dressed as if he were living in that decade. Later on, Hammerhead's entire skull was replaced with or reinforced with some type of nearly unbreakable metal (possibly vibranium or secondary adamantium).A gang war broke out between Hammerhead's mob and Doctor Octopus's criminal organization. Hammerhead was forced to flee the country due to Spider-Man's interference. He later had a rematch with Doctor Octopus next to an atomic breeder reactor on a remote Canadian island which caused a chain reaction, blasting Hammerhead "out of phase" with this dimension. Some time later, he appeared as an immaterial ghost-like being to haunt Doctor Octopus. Doctor Octopus then unwittingly used a particle accelerator to restore Hammerhead to his corporeal form. Hammerhead kidnapped Spider-Man's Aunt May, who was then rescued by Spider-Man as Doctor Octopus caused Hammerhead's helicopter to plummet into the Hudson River.Hammerhead then proposed that all Maggia "families" unite under his leadership. Wearing a strength-enhancing exoskeleton, he battled the Human Torch, who then fused the exoskeleton's power pack. Hammerhead was nearly assassinated by the Kingpin's minion the Arranger during a gang war. Hammerhead was forced out of a major role in New York City organized crime by the Kingpin.Hammerhead then allied himself with the Chameleon in the latter's bid to become the new crime lord of New York City. The two served as partners in a splinter group of the Maggia. Hammerhead hired Tombstone as a bodyguard and hitman. He hired the Hobgoblin to kill Joe Robertson, who posed a threat to Tombstone; the assassination attempt failed. Hammerhead was kidnapped and beaten by Tombstone, who had gained superhuman powers and resented Hammerhead for not sending him to kill Joe Robertson.Hammerhead later attended a Las Vegas crime conference to divide the resources left by the Kingpin's downfall at the time. Around this time, he participates in a multi-sided gang-war focused on the Kingpin's attempt to re-take New York City for his own.Hammerhead is a major player in underworld activities in the Marvel Universe and is highly sought after for elimination by the Punisher. He becomes one of several gang warlords struggling to control the criminal underworld in the major cities of the Eastern United States. During one of the first meetings of such warlords, Hammerhead was almost killed by the Strucker twins Fenris. This meeting was being manipulated by Baron von Strucker, the head of HYDRA. When Don Fortunato made a bid for control of the New York underworld, Hammerhead opposed him and was almost killed as a result. When every other crime lord surrendered to Fortunato and his HYDRA allies, Hammerhead went rogue, launching a raid on Fortunato's home and successfully fighting off a HYDRA attack on his own headquarters. He did have assistance from Spider-Man and Morbius the Living Vampire, however. For a time, the hero known as S.H.O.C. also assists Hammerhead. Later, he was hired by Norman Osborn to be a part of the Sinister Twelve.During the events of the Civil War, Hammerhead used the vacuum left by the incarceration of the Kingpin to gain a greater foothold in the ranks of organized crime, attempting to organize an army of costumed villains (consisting of the Ani-Men V, the Answer I, the Aura, Bloodshed, the Clown, the Cyclone III, the Discus, Electro, the Great Gambonnos, the Kangaroo II, Man Mountain Marko, the Mauler, Mindblast, Override, the Ringmaster, Stiletto, the Spot, the Squid, Slyde, the Trapster, and the Will O' The Wisp) to enforce his new criminal empire. When Slyde balked at the idea, Hammerhead had Underworld kill him to serve as a warning to anyone who did not join up with him. The Kingpin manipulated various hero factions, most notably S.H.I.E.L.D. and Iron Man, into breaking up Hammerhead's first convening of his army. During the conflict, Hammerhead was shot numerous times by Underworld, who was revealed to be working for the Kingpin. Underworld later confronted Hammerhead while he lay in prison. Underworld then shot Hammerhead at point-blank range with adamantium bullets.The bullets, while not penetrating his skull, did cause severe trauma to his brain, resulting him in needing surgery, but the hospital he was brought to was unable to treat him. In mid-surgery however, men working for Mister Negative came in, killed the hospital staff, and took Hammerhead away. Mister Negative then has his surgeon Doctor Trauma revive Hammerhead and offers to transplant his brain into a new robotic adamantium skeleton, which Hammerhead agrees to.The operation is a complete success, and Hammerhead is restored to full mobility without any ill effects. He swears loyalty to Mister Negative in exchange for his restored life, and proceeds to shape a gang of lowlife thugs into an effective army for his benefactor. He then proceeds to battle Spider-Man, besting him with no effort for the first time in years. Later, he has a rematch with Spider-Man, with Spider-Man dislocating Hammerhead's hip bone.Mister Negative sends Hammerhead to help Spider-Man (who Mister Negative corrupted) take down the Hood, who launches an attack on Negative's headquarters. He blackmails H.A.M.M.E.R. director Norman Osborn into forcing the Hood to pull out of Chinatown.Hammerhead later begins to doubt his loyalty to Mister Negative when Silvermane appears to return. Unknown to Hammerhead, it is actually an android controlled by Mysterio to plant seeds of rebellion. Nevertheless, he flees a shootout with the Maggia when the Silvermane robot calls him a traitor. It is shown that Mister Negative had a computer chip put in Hammerhead's head to deliver an electroshock when necessary, which he promptly uses to punish him and remind him who is in charge.During the Origin of the Species storyline, Hammerhead and Mister Negative are among the supervillains invited by Doctor Octopus to join his supervillain team, promising them that they will receive a reward in exchange for securing some specific items for him.Alongside his nephew and minions, Hammerhead formed an alliance with the Black Cat, where he sided with her gang.


== Powers and abilities ==
Hammerhead has no superhuman abilities, yet his skull is now surgically reinforced with vibranium (or secondary adamantium), making his head flat on top; with this, he can charge and break through objects such as brick walls without causing any pain or damage to himself. This metal can absorb physical impacts that would otherwise fracture human bone. Hammerhead is in peak physical condition comparable to that of an Olympic-level athlete. He is a formidable hand-to-hand combatant whose most dangerous tactic is charging head first like a bull toward an opponent. Hammerhead once utilized a strength-enhancing exoskeleton designed by the Tinkerer.
After an assassin's adamantium bullet penetrated a part of his head not protected by his adamantium skull, Hammerhead is surgically rebuilt by Mister Negative. Breakout surgeries replace the upper half of his skeleton with an adamantium endo-skeleton (the skeleton is shown to have a network of hydraulic servomechanisms). The upper portion of his body is now superhumanly strong as a result of the additional hidden cybernetic musculature, making him able to effortlessly beat a superpowered foe such as Spider-Man. Mister Negative does not use on Hammerhead the same Lord Dark Wind bonding process, used on the similarly empowered Wolverine and Lady Deathstrike for coating their bones in adamantium: instead he replaces Hammerhead's bones with replicas fashioned in the invulnerable metal. It is still unknown how his artificial skeleton can carry on biological functions.
The intervention of Mr. Negative also radically changed Hammerhead's personality. Hammerhead now recalls his life as Russian immigrant prior to the accident in which he adopted the 1920s gangster persona. Consequently, Hammerhead no longer speaks like a 1920s movie gangster, but instead behaves as a typical modern Russian mobster and hitman, as this was apparently his original personality prior to his head injury.
Hammerhead is highly skilled in the organization, concealment, and management of criminal enterprises. He is an effective hitman, a skilled marksman (his preferred weapon was the Thompson submachine gun), and an excellent street fighter. In his original incarnation, Hammerhead was able to hold his own against Spider-Man despite being an ordinary human by using his superhumanly durable skull as a blunt instrument. After his recent augmentation, he is now capable of grappling with and physically overpowering Spider-Man to the extent that he could eventually crush his foe.


== Other versions ==


=== House of M ===
In the House of M reality, Hammerhead is one of the gang leaders defeated by Luke Cage in his rise to power in Sapien Town.


=== Marvel Zombies ===
In the Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness miniseries, Hammerhead briefly appears, along with the Owl and the Kingpin, at a meeting to discuss how to survive the zombie outbreak. This version of Hammerhead is ultimately killed by the Punisher.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
The Ultimate Marvel version of Hammerhead first appears in Ultimate X-Men #13-14 as a mobster who has killed the parents of a little girl. The girl stumbles upon local street performer/magician Gambit, taking the girl in and decides to protect her from the mob. The girl is kidnapped and Gambit goes on a rampage to find her, blindly running into an ambush Hammerhead set up. Gambit gets out of the ambush and chases Hammerhead down. In the end, Gambit charges Hammerhead's inorganic skull full of bio-kinetic energy and causes his head to explode. It is also known his first name is Joseph. In Ultimate Spider-Man, Hammerhead was revealed to have survived Gambit's attack, though how is not explained ("It sucked. I came back."). He kills Silvermane in the beginning of the Warriors story arc and becomes the Enforcers' new leader. He burns down one of the Kingpin's warehouses. After an intense battle with Spider-Man, Black Cat, Moon Knight, Iron Fist, and Shang-Chi, he was put in a coma when Elektra brutally stabbed him in the chest with her sai and flung him out of a window.


=== Marvel MAX ===
An alternate version of Hammerhead appears as one of the antagonists in the Cage limited series by Brian Azzarello and Richard Corben. This version of the character is a deformed gangster named Sonny "The Hammer" Caputo, who is embroiled in a gang war with Tombstone.


=== Age of Ultron ===
During the Age of Ultron storyline, a reality where Ultron nearly annihilated the human race has Hammerhead and Owl capturing Superior Spider-Man and hoped to trade him to Ultron. Hawkeye came to Superior Spider-Man's rescue as the Ultron Sentinels attack.


=== Earth-001 ===
During the Spider-Verse storyline, the Earth-001 version of Hammerhead appears as a member of Verna's Hounds.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Hammerhead appeared in the 1980s Spider-Man cartoon series, voiced by William Boyett. In the episode "Wrath of the Sub-Mariner", he, Silvermane, Man Mountain Marko, and Caesar Cicero meet with the Kingpin when his scientist Dr. Everett created a dissolving fluid, only for Spider-Man to interfere.
Hammerhead appeared in the 1990s' Spider-Man: The Animated Series, voiced by Nicky Blair. In this continuity, his head is laced with adamantium. He first appeared in the "Insidious Six" two-parter as one of Silvermane's loyal henchmen before Spider-Man interfered, got him fired, and hired by the Kingpin. After Kingpin's right hand, Alistair Smythe, stole a powerful artifact called the Tablet of Time and Silvermane hired the thug Tombstone to kidnap Dr. Curt Connors, Hammerhead deduced Kingpin's wife Vanessa Fisk was also kidnapped. In retaliation, he kidnapped Silvermane's daughter, Alisa Silver. The two crime lords arranged a meeting, but Spider-Man and a robot Alistair built intervened. Hammerhead attempted to keep Alisa in his custody, but Spider-Man defeated him. During a fight between Silvermane, Tombstone, Alisa, and Dr. Connors after he became the Lizard, Hammerhead retrieved the tablet for Kingpin. Alisa attempted to kill everyone by detonating the building, but everyone escaped and presumed the tablet was destroyed with it. Though Kingpin was pleased by Hammerhead's loyalty, the former's life of crime led to the dissolution of his marriage, so he ordered Hammerhead to get rid of the tablet. He obliged by selling it to Adrian Toomes.
Hammerhead appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series, voiced by John DiMaggio. This incarnation is more cool-headed and intelligent than past incarnations. He also uses brass knuckles as weapons, though he retains his usual strength. An enforcer of the crime boss Tombstone, he acts on his boss' behalf by manufacturing supervillains to distract Spider-Man from Tombstone's operations. Prior to being Tombstone's henchman, Hammerhead once worked for Silvermane and was in a romantic relationship with his daughter, Silver Sable. While attending an auction organized by Oscorp on Tombstone's behalf, he re-encountered Sable and attempted to outbid out of spite, only to be beaten by Roderick Kingsley. Hammerhead tried to attack him and Sable, but when Spider-Man and Rhino interfered, he teamed up with his former lover to fight back before escaping police custody. Due to Hammerhead's numerous failures, Tombstone became fed up and started conducting business without him. While contacting Norman Osborn to create another supervillain, Hammerhead becomes inspired to betray his boss as part of his own plan to take Tombstone out of play. Secretly calling for a Valentine's Day meeting between Tombstone, Doctor Octopus and Silvermane, Hammerhead attempted to manipulate the assembled crime bosses into destroying each other. However, Spider-Man foils his plan by getting all of the bosses arrested, leading Tombstone to fire Hammerhead.
A Marvel Noir version of Hammerhead appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man vs. The Sinister Six episode "Return to the Spider-Verse (Part 3)", voiced by Jon Polito in one of the actor's final works before his passing. This version is a crime boss and rival of Joe Fixit. Hammerhead attacks the latter's gang with weapons powered by a Siege Perilous fragment, but his henchman Martin Li uses its power to become Mister Negative and petrify him before taking over his gang. Once the "prime" Spider-Man and Fixit defeat Mister Negative, Hammerhead is restored to normal.
Hammerhead appears in Marvel's Spider-Man, voiced by Jim Cummings. This version is a crime boss who employed both Flint Marko and Randy Macklin. Debuting in "Sandman", he was responsible for Marko's transformation into the title character after burying him in toxic waste and sand after Marko failed him one too many times. This also mutated his daughter, Keemia Marko, whom Hammerhead took in as his new henchwoman after finding a way to stabilize her condition. After Sandman and Spider-Man join forces to rescue Keemia, the web-slinger defeats Hammerhead and his henchmen and leaves them for the police. Following this, Hammerhead makes minor reappearances in the episodes "Spider-Man on Ice", "How I Thwipped My Summer Vacation", "My Own Worst Enemy", and "Spider-Man Unmasked (Part 2)". In "How I Thwipped My Summer Vacation" it is revealed that he has a spoiled son named Tull (voiced by Laura Bailey).


=== Video games ===
Hammerhead appeared in the 1995 Spider-Man video game.
Hammerhead appears as a boss in the PlayStation exclusive Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. In the game, Hammerhead is one of several supervillains who aid Electro with his schemes. The former and his men are sent to retrieve a "Bio-Nexus Device" for Electro, only to be confronted and defeated by Spider-Man.
Hammerhead appears as a boss in Spider-Man: Mysterio's Menace. He was recruited by Mysterio to steal various technological components, but Spider-Man defeats him.
A Marvel Noir version of Hammerhead appears as a boss in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions, with John DiMaggio reprising his role from The Spectacular Spider-Man. While he does not appear in the original Noir comics, the developers felt "he would be a perfect fit for the Noir universe". This version, named Joseph Lorenzini, was born with a deformed head and a flat, thick skull. He initially worked as a circus freak before being recruited by Norman Osborn as a loan shark and enforcer. Hammerhead is sent to New Jersey to retrieve a fragment of the Tablet of Order and Chaos. However, Hammerhead uses it to become more powerful and plotted to overthrow Osborn as the head of New York's criminal underworld. In the end, Spider-Man Noir intervenes, defeating him and claiming the fragment.
Hammerhead appears as a boss in the Facebook game Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Hammerhead appears as a boss in the mobile version of The Amazing Spider-Man 2, voiced by Dave Boat. He is a depicted as a gang leader at war with the Russian mob, led by Kraven the Hunter. While attending an arms deal with Donald Menken, Kraven interrupts them. After Spider-Man gets involved as well, Hammerhead and Kraven temporarily settle their differences to fight him. While Spider-Man ultimately defeats them, the pair escape when the web-slinger goes after Menken.
Hammerhead appears as a playable character and a boss in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2. In the game's story, Hammerhead is a gang boss in Manhattan Noir who attempts to assassinate the Kingpin so that he can replace him as the biggest crime boss in town, only to be thwarted by Spider-Man, Ms. Marvel, Iron Fist, and Spider-Man Noir.
A version of Hammerhead infected with a Venom symbiote appears as a playable character in the mobile game Spider-Man Unlimited.
Hammerhead appears in The City that Never Sleeps DLC for the 2018 Spider-Man video game, voiced by Keith Silverstein. Similarly to his comics counterpart, he is a powerful and notorious crime boss within the Maggia, and has a metal plate in his skull that was implanted after a failed assassination attempt. Following the power vacuum created by Kingpin and Mister Negative's arrests in the main game, Hammerhead's crime family is among those taking part in the resulting gang war for control over New York's criminal underworld. Seeking to collect four drives containing the collective wealth of the other Maggia families and blackmail them into submitting to his rule, Hammerhead hires Black Cat to steal them for him. While she betrays him and attempts to keep the drives for herself, he anticipates this and arranges for her to be killed. After her apparent death, Hammerhead's gang steals advanced weapons and technology from private military company Sable International to gain an advantage over the other Maggia families, killing several NYPD officers along the way. Spider-Man foils Hammerhead's attempt to kill the other Maggia leaders, but a vengeful Captain Yuri Watanabe nearly kills Hammerhead before Spider-Man redirects her shot. By the time Hammerhead escapes police custody and undergoes a procedure to transform himself into a cyborg using Sable International's Project Olympus, the company's head, Silver Sablinova, returns to New York to retrieve her stolen tech. After learning about Hammerhead's weaknesses from Black Cat, who faked her death, Spider-Man and Silver Sable subdue him.


=== Theater ===
Hammerhead appears in Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark alongside Kingpin when Spider-Man foils their bank robbery.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hammerhead at Marvel.com