
Hazmat (Jennifer Takeda) first appeared in Avengers Academy #1 (June 2010); she was a series regular through its final issue. Created by Christos Gage and Mike McKone, the character Takeda discovers that her body naturally generates radiation when her boyfriend goes into a seizure while making out with her, an event that leads her family to all but abandon her, said boyfriend to dump her, and Takeda to have to wear a containment suit on a regular basis. Norman Osborn offers to cure her, but is just exploiting her.
During the Heroic Age storyline, Hazmat is recruited into the Avengers Academy, along with five other students affected by Osborn. The group is led to believe that they are among those most likely to become heroes, but quickly uncover files stating they are in fact most likely to become villains. Hazmat later enters a romantic relationship with Mettle, one of the only people who can physically touch her. Desiring normal lives, the two consume a substance that removes their powers; but later take an antidote to regain them to fight the substance's villainous creator, and then proceed to consummate their relationship.As part of the Marvel NOW!, in Avengers Arena Hazmat, Reptil, Mettle, X-23, and a dozen others are kidnapped by Arcade. Arcade takes them to Murderworld, where Hazmat watches Mettle die to save her. She later becomes injured and begins to lose control over her radiation. The resulting explosion leads to complete control of her radiation so that she no longer has to wear her containment suit.When Cammi and Anachronism reveal Bloodstone has gone missing, everyone heads to Bagalia to find him. Once they do, he reveals that he enjoys life among the villains, and the others, minus Cammi, start to enjoy it as well. When Cammi tries to tell the others to leave, Bloodstone instead has Daimon Hellstrom teleport the group to Arcade's latest party so they can kill him, which Hazmat does, blowing him to bits with a concentrated radiation burst. The group is invited to join with Baron Zemo. Hazmat, along with Anachronism and Cammi, are brought to be trained by Madame Masque, and the team plans to infiltrate the Masters of Evil and destroy them from within. Over the next few months, Hazmat and Anachronism grow close, eventually kissing. Hazmat contacts Hank Pym and informs him of the plans that the team has uncovered. She also tries to contact Death Locket, but later learns that Death Locket has betrayed the group and put Chase in a coma. She bests Death Locket and the Young Masters.During the "Empyre" storyline, Hazmat is recruited to Captain Marvel's personal Accuser Corps and receives a copy of the Universal Weapon that was made by Doctor Strange.Hazmat constantly emits harmful radiation, forcing her to wear a protective suit at all times when around others. The suit serves the additional purpose of enabling her to focus her radiation into energy bolts. Although her abilities manifested during her teens without obvious explanation, it has been confirmed that she is not a mutant.


=== Hazmat in other media ===
Hazmat appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.


