Elementals (Marvel Comics)

The Elementals is a fictional organization appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
A version of the "Elementals" appeared in the 2019 Marvel Cinematic Universe film Spider-Man: Far From Home. This version of the group are actually illusions created by a series of drones operated by Mysterio.


== Publication history ==
The Elementals first appeared in Supernatural Thrillers #8 (August 1974), and were created by Tony Isabella and Val Mayerik.
The group subsequently appears in Supernatural Thrillers #9–15 (October 1974 – October 1975)  and Ms. Marvel #11–12 (November–December 1977).


== Fictional biography ==
The Elementals are four extradimensional humanoids who became immortals with power over natural forces and who ruled a kingdom on Earth before the rise of the original Atlantis. They are Hydron, lord of the waters; Magnum, master of the earth; Hellfire, wielder of flame; and Zephyr, mistress of the winds. The Elementals used N'Kantu / the Living Mummy, making him a slave, using him as a pawn against the Ahmet Abdol / the Living Monolith to obtain the Ruby Scarab from them. Zephyr betrayed the other Elementals and allied with the Living Mummy. The Elementals attacked Zephyr, the Living Mummy, and their allies and gained the Scarab from them. When the Elementals tried to release their energies through the Scarab, they were blasted off Earth.The Elementals were later returned to Earth and pursued Zephyr and the Scarab. Carol Danvers (Ms. Marvel) arrived and fought the Elementals, defeating them one by one.During the "Dark Reign" storyline, Quasimodo researched the Elementals alongside other villains for Norman Osborn. He speculated that they could be aliens from the Axi-Tun or the Horusians.


== Team lineup ==
Hellfire – The leader of the villainous group, who can generate fire and flames.
Hydron – A foe with aquatic powers, including the ability to control water.
Magnum – He has abilities that allow manipulation of earth, minerals, and rock.
Zephyr – The sole female of the team who has the power to control wind, sky and air and thereby affect many of its aspects.


== In other media ==
A group called the "Elementals" appear in the 2019 film Spider-Man: Far From Home. Other than the name and elemental theme, this group is unrelated to the comics team and has more in common with the Elementals of Doom. Instead, this iteration consists of the Wind, Earth, Fire, and Water Elemental; who are modeled after Cyclone, Sandman, Molten Man, and Hydro-Man respectively. Quentin Beck, operating under the guise of Mysterio, claimed that they were born in a black hole and ravaged his reality of Earth-833. After Mysterio defeated the Wind and Earth Elementals off-screen, he went on to fight the Water Elemental in Venice while Nick Fury and Maria Hill persuaded Spider-Man to help Mysterio defeat the Fire Elemental in Prague. After finding a holographic projector however, Spider-Man and his friend Michelle Jones discovered that they were drones equipped with holographic technology, which Beck and a team of ex-Stark Industries employees used to make himself look like an Avengers-level hero. When Beck learned of their discovery, he had his accomplices create an Elemental Fusion monster to distract the world while he set out to kill them. His plan was foiled when Spider-Man got into the illusion and deactivated the drones creating it before defeating Beck.


== References ==


== External links ==
Elementals at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
Elementals on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki