


=== Military's Hulk Robot ===
The first Hulk Robot was a simulacrum created by the scientists at Gamma Base that was used to test the value of the Iceberg Rocket that General Thunderbolt Ross had his scientists create.A later model of the Hulk Robot was operated by a remote that is worn by an individual at a safe distance. During the time he was cured of his gamma-radiation condition, Bruce Banner donned the harness in order to fight Leader during his takeover of Gamma Base. Although the Hulk Robot fought Leader's Murder Module, it was destroyed in battle where the feedback nearly killed Bruce Banner.Another version of the military's Hulk Robot came into the possession of the magician Kropotkin the Great during one of his visits to Gamma Base. Even though he hasn't been to Gamma Base for a while, Kropotkin the Great still owns this Hulk Robot.


=== Second Hulk Robot ===
Rusty and Arthur are two Maryland Institute of Technology students who constructed a Hulk robot to be the mascot for their school's all-star game, but Dr. Timothy Ryan considered it dangerous and wouldn't allow it. It was brought to life by cosmic energies released by the Eternals from Olympia when they emerged from the Uni-Mind. The energies granted the Hulk Robot sentience and increased its strength to rival the Hulk. It broke out of the lab and went on a rampage. When the National Guard couldn't stop the Hulk Robot, three Eternals members (Ikaris, Makkari, and Sersi) were called in. Both the Eternals and National Guard were losing until Zuras entered the fray. When it charged Zuras, cosmic energies leaked and it was rendered inert.Later on, Doctor Doom found the Hulk Robot and dismantled and rebuilt it to serve him. He sent it to fight the Thing who thought it was the real Hulk after taking out the Grey Hulk. When Thing discovered it wasn't the real Hulk during battle, he tore it apart.During the Acts of Vengeance event, Doctor Doom gave Jester II the Hulk Robot's parts and Jester rebuilt it (with the addition of humorous weapons in its arsenal) as a member of the Assembly of Evil. During the Avengers' press conference, the Hulk Robot attacked She-Hulk and had her on the ropes until Wasp attacked the Jester's remote control causing the Hulk Robot to go haywire. She-Hulk destroyed it by flinging it into an energy blast fired by Fenris.The Hulk Robot (or the non-operating version) was seen in a museum the Eternals kept in Olympia which held reminders of foes and their weapons. Zuras displayed the robot to Joey Eliot.During the Fall of the Hulks storyline, the Hulk Robot returned. When Galactus created the Cosmos Automaton to serve him as part of a later retelling of the Hulk Robot's origin as shown on the extraterrestrial disk, he abandoned it during a visit to one of the worlds that he would consume causing it to seek a new form for its body. After influencing Professor Gregson Gilbert into creating Dragon Man and finding it not to be a suitable candidate, it then influenced Mad Thinker into creating a Hulk Robot. Even though he didn't know why he created, Mad Thinker had it locked away. After the extraterrestrial disk was done showing this to Red Hulk and A-Bomb, Red Hulk considered decapitating it only for the Hulk Robot to activate upon absorbing the cosmic energy that was used to empower Red Hulk. This was all part of Leader and MODOK's plan to siphon the energy. Bruce Banner, Red Hulk, and A-Bomb looked at the enemies that they were facing and found a holographic shot of the Hulk Robot. Leader (alongside the other Intelligencia members) managed to obtain the Hulk Robot. The Leader used it to attack former member Doctor Doom when Skaar attacks. Doctor Doom fell victim to the Hulk Robot's "Poison Pill" when Bruce Banner arrived. The Leader then had the Hulk Robot carry away Doctor Doom.Hulk Robot later helped MODOK and the Mad Thinker's Gammadroid subdue Red Hulk.Red Hulk later drains the Gamma Energy from the Hulk Robot and rips it apart.


