Inferno (Dante Pertuz)

Inferno (Dante Pertuz) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.


== Publication history ==
Pertuz was created by writer Charles Soule and artist Joe Madureira as the protagonist of the Inhumans comic, Inhuman. He made his debut in the comic's first issue, which was included as a backup feature to The Amazing Spider-Man vol. 2 #1. In the context of the series, Pertuz is portrayed in either his late teens or early twenties, and is of Inhuman descent. His powers are activated when the chemical known as Terrigen Mist is spread throughout the world in the aftermath of the Inhumanity storyline. Pertuz would appear in most issues of the Inhuman comic, and will appear in the Uncanny Inhumans series, a preview of which was featured as a backup for Marvel's Free Comic Book Day comic, All-New, All-Different Avengers.Since his debut, Marvel has pushed Pertuz as a key character in their universe, usually to represent their Inhuman line of comics. He was included in the "Avengers NOW!" promotional artwork, where he was beside iconic characters such as Iron Man and the new Thor and Captain America. He was also beside Medusa as Inhuman representation in the first issue of the major crossover storyline, "Secret Wars". He was featured in promotional images for the All-New, All-Different Marvel line of comics.


== Fictional character biography ==
Living in Des Plaines, Illinois, Dante Pertuz was a drummer for a wedding band to support his pregnant sister and sick mother. One day during the Inhumanity storyline, the Terrigen Mist (a chemical used to activate the abilities of Inhumans) flew through his neighborhood following the aftermath of the Infinity storyline where Black Bolt detonated the Terrigen bomb during his fight with Thanos. Dante, unknowingly a part of Inhuman descent, underwent Terrigenesis, as did his mother, his sister being spared due to not inheriting the gene. His mother was killed during the process. During all this, an Inhuman named Lash appeared, who believed that only a certain few should be chosen for the transformation. He attempts to kill the family, but Dante emerges with new flame based powers, and fights off Lash. Towards the end of the fight, the Inhuman queen Medusa comes to him, aiding him until Lash flees. She befriends Dante, him being the first NuHuman (people of both human and Inhuman ancestry) to join Inhuman society.As the months go on, Dante (whose sister had suggested his Inhuman name Inferno) and his sister move into New Attilan, as thousands of NuHumans are revealed across the world, with the Terrigen Mist spreading around the Earth, many of them moving to New Attilan now that Medusa has publicly announced that Attilan will be an independent nation and safe haven to all Inhumans and NuHumans. Dante trains as a soldier under the leadership of Gorgon, and befriends fellow NuHumans Flint, Naja, and Kamala Khan (the new Ms. Marvel). Pertuz is one of the main forces in protecting Attilan from several of the Inhuman's enemies, and is recruited to find the missing Inhuman king Black Bolt. Eventually, Medusa's advisor Lineage betrays the Inhumans as he reveals to be an ally of Lash. As Lineage uses a codex of human and Inhuman DNA to cause the humans of Jersey City to become deranged, Pertuz and his friends aid Ms. Marvel in subduing the city's people until Lineage is killed by Karnak. The battle ends while his sister Gabriella was in labor. Dante goes to Gabriella as her son is born. Dante comforts his nephew who has inherited the Inhuman gene.Not long afterwards during the Secret Wars storyline, Earth-616 faces its imminent end as it faces an incursion with the Earth-1610. Pertuz is there for the universe's final battle against the Children of Tomorrow alongside all the world's major superheroes. However, the universe meets its end as the world fades into oblivion, killing him, alongside Medusa and the rest of the universe. Like the rest of the people and heroes who perished at the hand of the incursion, Doctor Doom saves them all and puts them on his newly created planet of Battleworld wiping everyone's memories of the universe before it.During the Inhumans vs. X-Men storyline after the restoration of the universe, Inferno and Iso were sent by Medusa to find out what happened to Black Bolt while she prepares for battle. Iso and Inferno are chased by Wolverine and the time-displaced Angel. They manage to escape through a portal just before Wolverine can catch them. On the other side of the portal, they find Old Man Logan waiting for them. While Inferno distracts Logan, Iso discovers Forge nearby with a device that the X-Men are planning to use to alter the structure of the Terrigen Cloud so they can destroy it. Iso and Inferno manage to defeat Logan and Forge and destroy the device then flee while taking Forge prisoner.During the Secret Empire storyline, Inferno joins up with Daisy Johnson's Secret Warriors.


== Powers and abilities ==
Dante has the power of pyrokinesis with added molten earth properties, uniquely where others are able to produce vast amounts of plasmoid fire and launch it from their own bodies, even lighting themselves aflame similarly to Human Torch. His body morphs into a molten rock like substance whenever catching alight and usually takes the appearance of smoldering ash when cooled. Also uniquely to him these powers come with the side effect involving the burning of his skin and hair while taking him some time to recover from the burns. He also sports an accelerated healing capability which is possibly connected to his ability to recover from his own burns; he once had his arm severed by a rioter and it regenerated from the same volcanic substance his ability produces.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Inferno appears in the Avengers: Ultron Revolution episode "Inhumans Among Us", voiced by Anthony Del Rio. This version lived in Maple Falls in Upstate New York and was living a normal life until an Inhuman ship carrying Seeker and the Alpha Primitives crashes into the nearby mountains. As a result, the Terrigen Fog was released from the ship and Dante was affected. Both the Avengers and the Inhumans found the Terrigen Cocoon inside a building. While the Avengers and the Inhumans were fighting, Seeker monitored the Terrigen Cocoon until Dante emerged as Inferno and went on the attack. The Avengers and the Inhumans had to work together to fight Inferno. Upon Hulk and Lockjaw returning with a Terrigen Crystal, the Avengers and the Inhumans were able to use it as part of a device that disperses the Terrigen Fog enough for Inferno and the Alpha Primitives to start acting like themselves. Now in control of his abilities, Dante befriends the Inhumans where he takes up their offer to live part-time on Attilan. In the episode "The Inhuman Condition", Inferno is among the Inhumans that were captured by Ultron. During this time, Inferno was shown to be wearing a special outfit that is immune to his fire abilities. Seeker revealed to the Avengers that Inferno's Terrigenesis was the result of him being an Inhuman descendant. He is later freed by the Avengers. In the episode "The Kids Are All Right", Captain America and Iron Man find Inferno fighting a stray Ultron robot where their fight leads them to a hotel. With help from Inferno's new friend Ms. Marvel, Captain America, Iron Man, and Inferno destroy the stray Ultron robot. Captain America later gives Inferno and Ms. Marvel a tour of Avengers Tower which is disrupted when Iron Man's old enemy Ghost attacks. Inferno and Ms. Marvel work with Captain America, Iron Man, Hawkeye, and Falcon to defeat Ghost. In the episode "Civil War, Part 1: The Fall of Attilan", Inferno is still getting control of his powers. At the time when Maximus was being taken to be imprisoned, he mind-controls Inferno into losing control so that his fire can set off the Terrigen Bomb that would level New Attilan. After Hulk breaks Inferno from Maximus' control, Inferno turns himself over to Truman Marsh's Guardsmen. In the episode "Civil War, Part 4: Avengers Revolution", Inferno is among the Inhumans who are mind-controlled by Ultron using the Registration Disks on their necks. During the fight at an old facility that was previously used by Howard Stark, Hulk subdued Inferno in order for Iron Man to test the frequency that would negate the Registration Disks that Ultron is using to control the Inhumans. This experiment was a success.


=== Film ===
Tyler Posey voices Inferno in the 2018 animated film Marvel Rising: Secret Warriors.


=== Video games ===
Inferno appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
Inferno appears as a playable character in Marvel: Future Fight.
Dante appears as a supporting character in the 2020 Marvel's Avengers video game, voiced by Michael Johnston.


== References ==


== External links ==
Inferno at Marvel Wiki
Inferno at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Inferno at Comic Vine