
Karn is a member of the Inheritors from the Spider-Verse storyline who wanders the Multiverse to slay Spider Totems. He first appeared in Superior Spider-Man #32 (September 2014), and he was created by Dan Slott, Christos N. Gage and Giuseppe Camuncoli.
During the hunt against the Master Weaver, he hesitates to deliver the finishing blow, leading to the death of his mother. As a result, he is condemned to wear a mask by his father Solus and exiled to hunt Spider Totems to earn his place back to the family.A time-displaced Superior Spider-Man (Otto Octavius's mind in Peter Parker's body) later discovered Karn. Assembling an army of Spider-Men, the Superior Spider-Man and his team ambushed Karn while hunting the Spider-Man of Earth-2818, but despite Karn continued to gain the upper hand, the Spider-Men only escaping when two of Karn's estranged siblings showed up and began fighting. Karn later joins the Spider-Men in their fight against the Inheritors.Karn realizes that Master Weaver is his future self. He establishes a new team of multiversal spider-heroes called the Warriors of the Great Web, consisting of Mayday Parker, Spider-Ham, Spider-Man Noir, Spider-Man India, and Spider-Gwen.
During the "Electroverse saga", an alliance of counterparts of Max Dillon invade Loomworld, damaging the great web while forcing the Web-Warriors to retreat to Earth-803. Karn and an alternate version of Doctor Octopus managed to fix the Web, but tangle it at the same time, causing the Web Warriors to become split between realities. Karn's reconnection of Earth-803 into the web also causes an earthquake that frees the Electros caught by the Web-Warriors.During the Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy storyline, Karn welcomes Kaine Parker, but soon realizes that he no longer has the powers of the Other and is now dying from a Carrion virus, and cannot go back to his Earth lest someone catch it. Karn shows Kaine a number of realities with zombie apocalypses caused by this disease, and Kaine decides to visit these realities to find a way to stop it. Kaine tries to keep himself hidden from the Web Warriors while researching, but is caught by Spider-Gwen.During the "Spider-Geddon" storyline, each of the Spider-Men and the Master Weaver have been keeping an eye on Earth-3145 by sending different Spider-Bots to check on them, discovering that while alive, the Inheritors have gotten malnourished from lack of spider lifeforces. Unknown to the Spider-Men and apparently to the Master Weaver himself, the Inheritors are collecting the heads of the Spider-Bots with Jennix stating that they now have the resources they need. When Spider-UK and Master Weaver get alerted to an Inheritor Cloning Engine on Earth-616, the two of them figure out what is happening. On Earth-3145, Jennix has put the Spider-Bot heads to good use by harvesting their transmitters. As they are unable to send a kill signal to the Inheritor Cloning Engine, Spider-UK advises Master Weaver to call the Web Warriors. When Master Weaver states that nobody can fight the Inheritors and win, Spider-UK states that they'll die trying to keep another world from being destroyed. Karn is then confronted by Verna for having sided with the Web Warriors as they fight to the death. After Karn stabs Verna, she still feeds on him as he is now a Spider-Totem. When Karn's dead body is found by Spider-Nor-Man, it is devoured by Spiders-Man of Earth-11580.
Powers and abilitiesLike the rest of the Inheritors, Karn has the ability to drain the life force from other beings through physical contact. Depending on the power of the individual he drains, his powers and vitality can increase substantially. He also has superhuman strength, speed, reflexes and durability. He has a staff that emits a unique energy signature capable of vaporizing people.As the Master Weaver, Karn threads the Web of Life and Destiny, gaining dominion over various realities. He can open portals at his command or alter realities.


=== Karn in other media ===
Karn appears as a boss character in the video game Spider-Man Unlimited, voiced by Matthew Mercer.
Karn appears in Marvel: Avengers Alliance as a boss character.
Karn's name can be seen in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse on Miles Morales's phone.


