
Kindred made his full appearance in Amazing Spider-Man (vol. 5) #5, but was retconned into being first mentioned in Friendly Neighborhood Spider-Man #12 (November 2006). The character was created by Nick Spencer and Ryan Ottley based on a character mentioned by Peter David.
Kindred was an as-yet-unnamed human who went to Hell and degenerated into a demon. Since he had an unknown history between Peter Parker, he began torturing Mysterio, until the latter agreed to serve Kindred. This led to Kindred resurrecting him, but Mysterio would forget the bargain.Kindred was aware about Ero's plan about Spider-Man and attempted to use Mysterio in order to convince the Spider-Totem to ally with him, but the totem refused.Kindred approached Mendel Stromm and prepared to give him a Master Mold that specializes in creating Tri-Sentinels. After Spider-Man takes control of the Tri-Sentinels, Mendel Stromm is visited by Kindred. He states that Stromm's usefulness has ended and tears him apart with his centipedes. When Spider-Man is restored to one person following the fight against the Tri-Sentinels, he finds Stromm who quotes "Guess my name" before shutting down.In his actual appearance, he is seen threatening the Kingpin to not harm Boomerang's roommate Peter Parker. He kills Fisk's associates using supernatural abilities and forces him to back off of Spider-Man after revealing that he is in possession of Vanessa's soul.Kindred later discovered Spider-Man's rekindled friendship with the Black Cat and claims that Peter "drags everyone into his own Hell."During the "Hunted" storyline, Spider-Man had a vision of Mary Jane being killed by the demon. As it turned out, Kindred was, in fact, watching over Mary Jane commenting on her to his centipedes, with one of his centipedes injuring Mary Jane.Kindred resumed tormenting Mysterio and came to him during a therapy session between "Mysterio" and "Dr. Ludwig Rinehart", in actuality, Mysterio as the doctor who had convinced his own doctor that he was instead Mysterio. When Kindred sensed that Peter Parker was dreaming about this scene, he killed the doctor posing as Mysterio, since he knew about Kindred's name. After killing Dr. Reinhart, Kindred directly threatened Peter that he will get his revenge on him. After Peter woke up, Kindred accused the real Mysterio that he was continually running from his purpose and then hands over a script to Mysterio in order to execute his plan while telling him to stick to it. He is then shown in front a wall covered with photos of Spider-Man, Miles Morales, the Superior Spider-Man, Spider-Woman (Jessica Drew), the Ghost Spider, Silk, and the Scarlet Spider.During the "Absolute Carnage" storyline, a flashback showed that Kindred had visited Norman Osborn in Ravencroft. He quoted that Norman looked down on the citizens of New York from his tower and states that he could have his centipedes rip him apart if he wanted them to. Kindred even made a reference to how he appeared in Mary Jane Watson's nightmares and how he will not be able to kill Spider-Man as Kindred states that he "already won a long time ago". In the rest of the flashback, Kindred sent one of his centipedes into Norman Osborn's head in order to save him from himself. Back in the present, Norman Osborn's Carnage form feels a scratching in his head as he tells Kindred to let him be the one to kill Spider-Man. He then turns his target towards Dylan Brock and Normie Osborn. As more of the flashback is shown, Kindred states to Norman that he will leave now and will return when Norman is himself again so that they can confront the truth together. As Kindred starts to leave, Norman's Cletus Kasady persona states to Kindred that he has a message for him from Norman, who states that he is "so proud of him". Kindred takes his leave as Norman's Cletus Kasady breaks out in maniacal laughter.In his hideout while still bothered by Norman knowing who he is, Kindred begins his next plot against Spider-Man by reviving the Sin-Eater.After Peter Parker left Norman Osborn for Sin-Eater, Kindred senses this happening from his lair in the cemetery and states that he did one wrong to do so much right. In addition, Kindred states that Spider-Man still hasn't learned the lesson that his sins don't stay buried.After Sin-Eater purged Norman Osborn of his sins, Kindred appeared and berets him for his own sins. Then Kindred killed Sin-Eater by causing him to erupt demonic energy after serving his purpose. This demonic energy was then used by Kindred to take control of Ghost-Spider, Miles Morales, Silk, Spider-Girl, and Madame Web as he sent them after Spider-Man and battered him enough for him to seek help from Doctor Strange. As this is happening, Kindred went to the cemetery where Gwen Stacy and George Stacy were buried, exhumed their bodies, and placed them around the table so that he can await for Spider-Man to arrive. When Norman Osborn recovered and the police have arrested Sin-Eater's followers, he claimed to the clone of Ashley Kafka that Kindred is Harry Osborn.


