
Kly'bn is a fictional deity created by Greg Pak and Fred Van Lente and first appeared in Incredible Hercules #117, while being first mentioned in Runaways Vol. 2 #14 in contrast to his wife Sl'gur't who first appeared in Fantastic Four Annual #24 of July, 1991.
Millions  of years ago, after the Celestials had created the Skrull Eternals, Deviants and Prime, the Deviant Skrulls wiped out the other two branches believing that they themselves were the superior branch, leaving only one member of each wiped branch. Kly'bn was the last Skrull Eternal, who convinced the Deviant Skrulls and their Queen Sl'gur't that killing him would be killing themselves, as he was the embodiment of the idea of the Skrull and it was his destiny to lead the Skrulls into changing the other worlds with their truth. Sl'gur't embraced his ideas and became lovers with the two becoming gods of the Skrull Pantheon. Since Kly'bn was unable to shapeshift, Sl'gur't vowed to never keep her form for too long in contrast to her husband. The couple together wrote the Book of World Skrull, where there was written three prophesies. These prophesies told about the eventual destruction of the Skrull homeworld and about Earth being the new home for the Skrulls. These prophesies were the main reason of the events of "Secret Invasion", being a holy war for the Skrulls. When the God Squad arrived at their fortress via Nightmare's realm, Kly'bn and Sl'gur't were forced into battling them. Sl'gur't was eaten by the Demogorge, but since she represented multiple different deities, the Demogorge exploded due for being too much. Sl'gur't then started a shapeshifting battle against Amatsu-Mikaboshi, with them copying each other. Eventually, Mikaboshi in Sl'gur't form killed Sl'gur't who was in Mikaboshi's form, allowing him to replace her. After, Kly'bn killed Ajak, Hercules started battling Kly'bn. Hercules was able to defeat Kly'bn, after Snowbird impaled him with the spine of the Demogorge.Kly'bn reappeared as one of the dead deities serving Amatsu-Mikabosi during "Chaos War".


