Knull (character)

Knull is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with Venom and Carnage. The character is depicted as an evil deity, who created the weapon known as All-Black the Necrosword and the alien races known as the Klyntar and Exolons. The character would go on to play a more important role in the Marvel Universe.


== Publication history ==
The character was first introduced in Venom #3 (Aug 2018), giving a nod to a nameless being appearing in Thor: God of Thunder #6. The character would be mentioned in various issues of Web of Venom, Guardians of the Galaxy and "War of the Realms".
After that, Knull was revealed to be the antagonist in Donny Cates’ Silver Surfer: Black #1.


== Fictional character biography ==
Knull is a primordial deity, created when the First Firmament was shattered into pieces and forced to flee in terror, and was originally content to drift through the endless void of space created by the shattered pieces, until the Celestials arrived and began creating the 7th iteration of the Marvel Universe. Awakened by the "Light of the Creation" and outraged by his kingdom of darkness being despoiled, Knull retaliated by creating All-Black the Necrosword and killing one of the Celestials. Seeing this, the other Celestials banished Knull and the severed head deeper into the Void. He then used the head to forge the symbiote and combined it with the cosmic energies of the head, which would eventually become Knowhere. In doing so, he unintentionally gave the symbiote its weaknesses to sonic attacks and fire. He created a symbiote armor and, with All-Black, started killing the other deities, until he crash landed on an unnamed planet where Gorr took All-Black and incapacitated Knull. Knull eventually reawakened and discovered he could bond his living abyss to "lesser creatures" and control their new form as vessels. He created an army of symbiotes with himself in the center of the hive mind and uses them to spread over the universe, establishing the Symbiote Imperium and killing the light and creation in the process.
He continued killing Gods, while also enslaving others whom he spared with the use of his abyss. At some point, he was approached by the time displaced Silver Surfer, who had been weakened after the Surfer had created a little star in order to free a world from Knull's control. After a brief fight, Knull was able to bond a symbiote to the Surfer, but the latter was saved by Ego, the Living Planet. When Knull reached the Surfer, he tried to defeat him and re-infect the Surfer with his abyss, but the Surfer, who had gathered the energy of the cosmos, creates a star which was enough to defeat Knull.When one dragon-like symbiote composite arrived on medieval Earth to claim the planet as part of the Symbiote Imperium, Thor arrived in aid of the Viking villagers and defeated the dragon, which the villagers called "Grendel", causing the connection between Knull and the symbiote hivemind to break. The symbiotes that were scattered over the universe, now free from Knull's control, began bonding to benevolent hosts and learning about the Light. The Symbiotes rebelled against their god and trapped him inside an artificial planet formed of thousands of symbiotes, which they called Klyntar — "cage" in their language.After thousands of years,  S.H.I.E.L.D. discovered the body of the Grendel and bound the pieces of the dragon to soldiers in order to create Super-Soldiers to fight in the Vietnam War. The procedure was dubbed the Sym-Soldier program. This reawakened Knull, allowing him to take control of the Sym-soldiers who went rogue before being captured by Nick Fury and Logan, except one piece, named Rex, which escaped Knull's control. Years later, Eddie Brock (Venom) unknowingly freed the dragon and, after a battle against Eddie and Spider-Man, the dragon began searching for Rex in order to free Knull. However, Venom merged with Rex and eventually trapped the Grendel in a blast furnace, incinerating it and Rex both. Afterward, the Maker and Project Oversight retrieve the Grendel's codex from the furnace.In Carnage Born, after Scorn formed a cult worshiping Knull, they stole the codices of Grendel and Cletus' damaged body and, after implanting the codices inside Cletus, the Carnage symbiote's codex is absorbed by Grendel, causing Grendel to become god-like. After the contact with Knull, Cletus decided to free Knull by collecting every codex of every host who had at some point bonded to symbiotes in order to overload the symbiote hive mind and scatter the Klyntar.It's also revealed that Knull had created the Exolons—parasites that attach to a host while feeding on their soul. Zak-Del, whose body houses Exolon, plans to find Knull in order for the latter to remove the parasite from him.After Cletus reunited with Doppelganger and Shriek, they reformed the cult dedicated in worshiping Knull and returned to Doverton, Colorado, where they got the codices from the citizens and animals who were infected by Carnage during Carnage USA.During "Absolute Carnage", as Carnage grew stronger, so did the connection between Knull and the symbiotes, as witnessed when Phage, Agony, Lasher, Riot and Scream also became corrupt. Knull was finally reawakened after Dark Carnage tricked Eddie into killing him after claiming the remaining codices. Knull promptly destroyed Klyntar and, manifesting a suit of draconic armor and coalescing its constituent symbiotes into a fleet of symbiote-dragons, resumes his campaign against the light all the while journeying to Earth, using his living abyss to claim entire planets to his cause, while haunting Eddie Brock with pointed nightmares and briefly imposed his influence over Dylan Brock to ensure that he would pledge allegiance to the Symbiote Imperium.


== Powers and abilities ==

Knull is a primordial deity, having super strength, agility, immortality and healing factor. He possesses Supreme Umbrakinesis, as he can manifest darkness to create weapons and creatures, whom he calls the "Living Abyss", which he can control and also augment their power which allowed Venom to unlock new abilities and also allowed one of Knull's dragon to be unaffected by the symbiotes' classic weaknesses and to be as fast as the Silver Surfer. He also possesses limited shapeshifting ability, including the ability to turn his human-like mouth into fanged jaws with an elongated tongue — this feature was passed on to the symbiotes. He's also an expert combatant, utilizing All-Black to kill Celestials and other gods, while wearing an armor made from symbiote with a red dragon and spiral emblem, which was based on Spiral of Carcosa from the True Detective.Despite his connection to the symbiotes being severed, his influence can still be seen such when Gorr, Old Galactus, Ego and King Loki, after being infected by All-Black, continued Knull's crusade to annihilate all existence, while Malekith bonded with the Venom symbiote called himself the Butcher of Thor. Venom formed a similar emblem with mixed design of Knull's emblem and Spider-Woman's. Similarly, the Nameless, a group of Kree explorers, after being infected by the Exolons, had their skin slowly fade with their outward appearance now resembling Knull.


== Other versions ==
In Ultimate Marvel, Richard Parker and Eddie Brock Sr., were the ones who created the Venom suit with Richard's DNA as a cure for terminal illness.


== In other media ==


=== Video games ===
Knull and Ancient Venom (Venom possessed by Knull) appear in Spider-Man Unlimited.
Knull is mentioned in Marvel Strike Force.
Marvel Puzzle Quest has a Carnage variant entitled "Prophet of Knull", and its description mentions the god.


=== Television ===
Knull appears in the Disney XD cartoon Spider-Man: Maximum Venom. He appears in the promo "The Secret Story of Venom", where Venom explains to his latest host about the symbiotes' origins as the Klyntar, living weapons used by Knull to wage a crusade against the Celestials, the first four being the Symbiote Sisters: All-Black, Scream, Scorn, and Mania. Despite their victories, Knull eventually abandoned the Sisters, no longer deeming them useful. In rage, the Sisters eventually found themselves crash-landing on a world, and replicated into several spawn to bond with the inhabitants in a bid for a harmonic purpose in life. However, the wisest of these people alone understood the danger the symbiotes posed, and rejected them, killing All-Black. Scream, Scorn, and Mania would use All-Black's remains to give birth to Venom, making him their prophet and champion, sending him across the universe from planet to planet to make it easier for them to enslave.


== Reception ==
In his early appearance, the character was received well, with Comic Book Resources drawing comparison with two other Marvel Villains: Morlun and Dracula. Bleeding Cool stated about the history that "It’s an engaging new story, and it redefines the symbiotes for the Marvel Universe." He was ranked at the number one in IGN's list of Marvel's Most Powerful Symbiotes. The character received special attention in Sweden and Norway due to the word "knull" being the noun form of "fuck" (referring to copulation) in Swedish and Norwegian. However, CBR later on criticized the character's design as being unoriginal and similar to most other villains, and not matching his nature, saying that the character would have been better if he would have been more similar to his creation.


== References ==


== External links ==
Knull on Marvel Database, a Marvel Comics wiki
Knull at Villains Wiki
Knull at Comic Vine
Knull at Comic Book Database
Knull: Everything You Need to Know About Marvel's Symbiote God at CBR