
Kobik is a physical manifestation of a Cosmic Cube in the Marvel Comics universe.
The character, created by Chris Bachalo, first appeared in Marvel NOW! Point One Vol 1 #1 (June 2015).
Within the context of the stories, Kobik originated from a S.H.I.E.L.D. project using fragments of Cosmic Cubes. The pieces merge into a single being that adopts the form of a child. Kobik becomes a member of the Thunderbolts.During her time affiliated with S.H.I.E.L.D., Kobik is involved in the Pleasant Hill project, where supervillains are taken to a pre-created town and brainwashed to act as normal civilians. At the same time, Kobik comes into contact with the Red Skull, the Cube's past experience with the Skull giving her a certain attachment to him. Using his influence on her, the Skull is able to convince her of Hydra being a noble organization. Kobik later makes contact with the elderly Steve Rogers during a stand-off where his life is in danger, and as a consequence of the Skull's manipulation, she not only reverts him to his youthful state but also rewrites his history so that he has been a Hydra sleeper agent since childhood. As Hydra's "Secret Empire" rises to power in the United States, Kobik begins to regretfully rewrite Rogers' mind, but it is revealed that the memory of his original, good conscious has remained hidden in her mind. The original Steve Rogers tries to convince Kobik to undo her mistakes, but she believes it is too late and is frightened of Hydra Rogers. Making things worse, in the real world Arnim Zola implants a Cosmic Cube into Rogers' physical body during the Resistance's hopeful raid on Hydra's main base, led by Sam Wilson. However, the good Rogers manages to get through to her, and eventually, they are both saved by Bucky Barnes and Scott Lang, who takes away Hydra Rogers’ ability to use both the Cosmic Cube and Mjolnir, allowing the real Captain America to defeat his mind-altered self. After Hydra Rogers is defeated, Kobik restores the history of the world, although she leaves some aspects intact from the Hydra-created reality.


