


=== Algrim ===
Kurse was originally the most powerful of a race of Dark Elves and known as Algrim the Strong He is coerced by the Dark Elf ruler Malekith the Accursed to fight the Asgardian God of Thunder and superhero, Thor. Malekith, however, betrays Algrim while he is fighting Thor, and in a bid to destroy the Thunder God orders that a pitfall beneath the two be opened. Thor saves himself courtesy of his mystical hammer Mjolnir, while Algrim falls into lava. Algrim's enchanted armor saves his life, but he is critically injured and develops amnesia from the shock, and is left with an obsessive desire for revenge.Algrim is later healed by the cosmic entity the Beyonder, who transforms him into the much more powerful being called Kurse. The Beyonder transports Kurse to Earth to battle Thor, but Kurse mistakes Thor's ally Beta Ray Bill for Thor and battles him. Kurse then battles the juvenile superhero team Power Pack. Thor dons his magical belt of strength to double his strength and confronts Kurse, but the Beyonder doubles Kurse's strength as well.  With the assistance of Power Pack, Thor and Bill are able to overcome Kurse, and Thor helps him remember that it was Malekith, not Thor, who is to blame for his suffering. The Beyonder then transports Kurse to Hel at Thor's suggestion, to frustrate Hela, the Goddess of Death.Kurse later confronts and severely beats Loki, who had been disguised as Malekith. Drawing off, he leaves Loki injured and finds someone who seems to be Balder the Brave, surrounded by legions of Asgardians. He barrels through them and slays his target, who turns out to be the true Malekith. After repenting, he is granted citizenship among the Asgardians.He is designated as the guardian of the children of Asgard after helping to protect Volstagg's daughter and adopted sons during a plague, and loyally serves Asgard until the time of Ragnarok. At the time of Ragnarok, all the Asgardians apparently perish, with the exception of Thor.Kurse is later captured by Malekith, who strips him of the armor. Algrim is sent to Nastrond Prison where he is forced to serve out the rest of the sentence of Wazaria, a former member of the League of Realms. Malekith forces Wazaria to don the armor, transforming her into the new Kurse. Before he is imprisoned, Algrim encourages his successor to kill herself the first chance she gets.


=== Waziria ===
Waziria is a Dark Elf witch of the Dove Gut Tribe in Svartalfheim.When Malekith escaped from his imprisonment and attacked his village, he cut off Waziria's left arm when using her as a hostage when Thor and his fellow Asgardians arrived. After recuperating, Waziria joined up with the League of Realms to hunt down Malekith.When the League of Realms split, only Waziria remained with Thor. During a meeting with the Dark Elf ruling council called the Council of the Unhallowed, Thor accused Waziria of being the traitor and that she gave Malekith the information to stay one step ahead of him, only for both to learn that it was Thor himself who had been bugged. Malekith then makes himself known. Before Malekith can kill Thor, the League of Realms showed up to help fight Malekith. The Council of the Unhallowed made the decision to side with Malekith. When the Congress of the Worlds planned to have Malekith rule Svartalfheim after he is done with his life sentence in Nastrond Prison, Malekith made Waziria his proxy while Malekith named Scumtongue his senator for the Congress of the Worlds.After stripping Algrim of his armor, Malekith transformed Waziria into the new Kurse while Algrim takes Waziria's place in Nastrond Prison.During the "War of the Realms" storyline, Kurse was present with Malekith as he begins his invasion on Midgard. She and Enchantress fight She-Hulk and Ghost Rider until Jane Foster slams Skidbladnir into Enchantress. After the Queen of Angels has no knowledge on why her soldier Fernande sided with Spider-Man and the League of Realms, Malekith states that he is leaving Kurse to assist her. In London, Volstagg controls the Destroyer Armor to defeat Kurse.


=== Kurse in other media ===


==== Film ====
Algrim appears in the animated direct-to-video film Thor: Tales of Asgard, voiced by Ron Halder. His race was killed by Frost Giants after they were forced to ally with Surtur because Odin would not help them. He later steals Surtur's sword, which corrupts him. Algrim then tries to take revenge on Asgard. Ultimately, Asgrim is killed by Loki in a fit of rage.
Algrim appears in Thor: The Dark World, portrayed by Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje. He appears as a close subordinate of Malekith the Accursed, later being turned into the last of the Dark Elves' monstrous Kursed soldiers, augmenting his strength significantly while bonding the armor he wore at the time to his body. He is much stronger than Thor and has little difficulty in overpowering him in Svartálfaheimr, before being killed by Loki with the help of a Dark Elf grenade.


==== Video games ====
Kurse appears as a mini-boss in the video game, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Tom Kane.
Kurse appeared as a group boss in Marvel: Avengers Alliance. He was featured in the 14th Spec-Ops.
Kurse appears in Marvel Heroes.
Kurse appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Andrew Kishino.
Kurse appears in the iOS tie-in game Thor: The Dark World, voiced by Dennis T. Carnegie.


