
Lasher is the name used by a symbiote in Marvel Comics. The symbiote, created by David Michelinie and Ron Lim, first appeared in Venom: Lethal Protector #4 (May 1993), and was named in Carnage, U.S.A. #2 (March 2012). The Lasher symbiote is one of five symbiote "children" forcefully spawned from the Venom symbiote alongside four other symbiotes (Riot, Agony, Phage and Scream).
Lasher's first host was Ramon Hernandez, a mercenary hired by Carlton Drake's Life Foundation in San Francisco. Ramon bonded with the Lasher symbiote in conjunction to Scream (Donna Diego), Agony (Leslie Gesneria), Riot (Trevor Cole) and Phage (Carl Mach). Lasher and his four symbiote "siblings" are defeated by Spider-Man and Venom. The symbiotes "siblings" later kidnap Eddie Brock out of prison in an attempt to communicate with their alien symbiotes in Chicago. When Eddie refused to aid, Ramon was killed with a sonic knife after Leslie, Carl and Trevor by Scream having snapped from Donna's schizophrenia and the Scream symbiote's influence.The Lasher symbiote later merged with three other symbiotes (Riot, Phage and Agony) into the Hybrid symbiote, until a military group later separated the four symbiotes for the U.S. Government.
Lasher's second host was Marcus Simms, a Lieutenant assigned the Lasher symbiote within the Mercury Team special force. When Carnage is loose in Colorado, Marcus trained with the Lasher symbiote for months in specific tasks alongside Riot (Howard Odgen), Phage (Rico Axelson) and Agony (James Murphy). Unfortunately, Marcus and his teammates were later killed by Carnage in their secret base. The four symbiotes bond to Deadpool to fight Carnage, and then afterwards with Mercury Team's dog.Some time later, the dog meets a family, and the symbiotes end up each bonding to a different family member. Lasher's host is a girl named Sadie.


=== Lasher in other media ===
Lasher (Ramon Hernandez) appeared as a boss character in Spider-Man and Venom: Separation Anxiety.
The Lasher symbiote appears as an alternate design for Hybrid (Scott Washington) in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Lasher (Ramon Hernandez) appears as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.


