Lizard (comics)

The Lizard (Dr. Curtis "Curt" Connors) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko, he first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #6 (November 1963) as an enemy of the superhero Spider-Man. The Lizard is primarily depicted as a villainous alternate personality of Connors, who takes over his mind and evolves after each transformation, slowly becoming the predominant personality. Despite this, the Lizard has also been portrayed as an antihero and ally of Spider-Man in various instances. Connors is sometimes an ally of Spider-Man just as himself, and not necessarily as his alter ego. He is also the husband of Martha Connors, and the father of Billy Connors.
In the comics, Curt Connors is a geneticist who researched the ability of certain reptiles to regrow missing limbs, and developed a serum that would allow humans to do the same, using lizard DNA as the basis. However, when he decided to test it on himself, hoping to regenerate his missing right arm, he transformed into a feral anthropomorphic lizard. While Spider-Man was able to restore him back to normal, the Lizard remained part of Connors' subconscious, and would be unleashed time and time again to wreak more havoc and try to establish himself as the dominant personality. The Lizard's general goal is to replace the world's population with creatures like himself, while Connors attempts to keep his reptilian alter ego under control and find a way to be rid of him for good; in some reinterpretations, Connors is able to control his transformation, and only uses the Lizard as an excuse to commit heinous crimes himself.
The character has appeared in numerous Spider-Man adaptations, including films, animated series, and video games. Dee Bradley Baker is the most frequent actor to provide the character's voice. Curt Connors was portrayed by Dylan Baker in 2004's Spider-Man 2 and 2007's Spider-Man 3, and his Lizard alter-ego was portrayed by Rhys Ifans in 2012's The Amazing Spider-Man. In 2009, The Lizard was ranked IGN's 62nd Greatest Comic Villain of All Time.


== Publication history ==
The Lizard first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #6 (November 1963), and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Origin ===
Curtis "Curt" Connors was born in Coral Gables, Florida. He was a gifted surgeon who enlisted in the U.S. Army. He performed emergency battlefield surgery on wounded GIs. However his right arm was terribly injured in a wartime blast, resulting in its amputation.After his return to civilian life as a research technologist, Connors became obsessed with uncovering the secrets of reptilian limb regeneration. Working from his home in the Florida Everglades with the help of war buddy Ted Sallis, he finally developed an experimental serum taken from reptilian DNA. The serum successfully regrew the missing limb of a rabbit, so then Connors chose to test the serum on himself. He ingested the formula and he did indeed grow a new arm.
However, the formula had an unfortunate side effect: Connors was subsequently transformed into a reptilian humanoid monster. Spider-Man discovered this situation during a trip to Florida to investigate newspaper reports of the Lizard after his employer the Daily Bugle challenged him. After discovering the Lizard's true identity and origin, Spider-Man used Connors' notes to create an antidote to restore him to his human form and mentality. Another attempt to develop this serum for safe use again resulted in Connors transforming into the Lizard, but on this occasion he was saved thanks to his former colleague Professor X and his first team of X-Men, the Beast and the Angel tracking the Lizard down in the swamps so that the Iceman could send him into hibernation long enough to develop a cure.


=== Life in New York ===
Later, Curt Connors relocated to New York City. He was able to repay Spider-Man by developing a formula to save May Parker's life after Peter Parker had given his aunt his radioactive blood during a transfusion, unintentionally putting her in mortal peril. It later became clear that the success of Connors' apparent cure from the Lizard persona was short-lived. A repeating pattern soon occurred, with stress or a chemical reaction turning Connors into the Lizard, Spider-Man fighting him, and then forcing him to swallow the antidote in order to reverse the transformation until the next time. A second personality had formed with the Lizard, one with the familiar goal shared by many villains of taking over the world. The Lizard envisioned a world where all humans had been transformed into (or replaced by) super-reptiles like himself. Despite the Lizard's overall hatred of humans, he was often shown to be unwilling to harm his wife Martha or young son Billy.
As Connors, he aided Spider-Man in defeating the Rhino by developing a formula to dissolve the Rhino's bulletproof hide, but accidentally transformed himself into the Lizard due to exposure to the chemicals needed to create the formula and was restored by Spider-Man. Connors was later kidnapped and forced to create a rejuvenation serum for Silvermane. However, the stress from this caused Connors to again transform; the Lizard then battled Spider-Man and the Human Torch, and was restored to normal once again by Spider-Man.During another encounter with Spider-Man after Peter's attempts to remove his powers resulted in him growing four extra arms, a bite from Morbius endowed the Lizard with Connors' personality via the infection of a strange enzyme. Connors then synthesized an antidote for himself and Spider-Man using the Morbius enzyme. Curt Connors later aided Spider-Man, Ka-Zar, and the Black Panther against Stegron the Dinosaur Man. After the apparent death of the Jackal, Dr. Connors determined that Spider-Man was not a clone. Later, the Lizard battled both Stegron and Spider-Man after Stegron kidnapped Billy Connors. For a time, Peter Parker worked as a teaching assistant to Dr. Connors at Empire State University, although Connors had no idea that Peter was actually Spider-Man. During this time, Spider-Man and Connors dealt with one of Connors' previous experiments in the form of the Iguana.During the first of the Secret Wars, the Lizard refused to participate on either side of the conflict. Although he was collected by the Beyonder along with other villains, he broke away from the main group after the first battle to settle in a swamp, where he befriended the Wasp, who had helped him treat an injury that he had sustained in the first battle. After the Lizard was blasted by the magic of the Enchantress, he reverted to human form. After Connors' return from this event, his wife Martha, unable to take it anymore since Connors had said that he had been permanently cured, only to disappear for many days and then return home in tattered clothing with no plausible explanation as to where he had been, took their son Billy and separated from Curt. The Lizard had apparently been affected by inter-dimensional teleportation so that Connors' mind presided over the Lizard, and he battled the Owl alongside Spider-Man. However, mystical activity during the Inferno crisis once again brought the Lizard's bestial nature to the fore, and Spider-Man cured him again.


=== The 1990s through 2007: Civil War ===
Connors then tried to straighten out his life and control the Lizard, with some degree of success. This ended when the villainess Calypso used her voodoo magic to take control of the Lizard (during the Torment storyline) for her own purposes, reducing him to a mindless, savage state. After a series of bloody battles, the Lizard and Calypso were defeated by Spider-Man, and Spider-Man assumed that he perished under Calypso's spell. Connors once again gained control of the Lizard's mind and body, although it was very weak. Curt carried out a plan to cure himself temporarily, after which he voluntarily submitted to incarceration in the supervillain prison the Vault. When Calypso forced the transformation and attempted to control the Lizard once again, the creature killed her and escaped from the Vault. After this escape, the Lizard fell and sank into a quicksand pit during a battle in the Everglades with Spider-Man and the bounty hunter Warrant and was believed to have died.Later, a huge bestial Lizard appeared, shortly after Connors was called in to investigate Peter Parker's sudden sickness (the result of Peter's recently lost spider-powers returning). Spider-Man (Ben Reilly) realized that not only had the Lizard survived, but revealed later his new monstrous transformation seemed to be permanent and the personality of Curt Connors appeared completely lost. However, when this savage mindless Lizard later unexpectedly encountered Dr. Connors himself while Connors was helping Peter, Curt became the true Lizard once again and saved his family by killing the "Lizard-clone". It was revealed that the Lizard-clone was a scientific accident resulting from an experimental formula being tested on a piece of the original Lizard's tail, which had then grown into a fully formed second creature.Although reunited after Curt's apparent death, Martha and Billy were diagnosed with cancer after being exposed to carcinogens from living near an industrial lab in Florida. Spider-Man assisted Curt in successfully forcing Monnano, the lab's owner, to admit culpability, but Martha died from her cancer. Billy recovered but remained bitter towards his father. Curt's guilt and internalized anger led him to become the Lizard once again, and once human, Curt attempted a bank robbery so that he would be sent to prison. After a short-lived term, Connors was released and changed into the Lizard once more, this time due to a scheme by Norman Osborn to form the Sinister Twelve to kill Spider-Man. The Sinister Twelve were defeated and captured by the combined forces of Daredevil, the Fantastic Four, and the Avengers.The Lizard resurfaced to face Spider-Man with the aid of Billy Connors, who was changed into an adolescent Lizard by his father. Both the Lizard and his son were captured and reverted. Billy's transformational ability has been ignored since. A new Sinister Six team, including new member the Lizard, appeared during the superhero Civil War, but it was stopped by Captain America and his Secret Avengers.Post-Civil War, Curt Connors aided Spider-Man in developing a cure for the victims of Mister Hyde who were mutated with unstable versions of Spider-Man's powers. Dr. Connors has also monitored the progress of the hero Komodo, a female grad student who stole a sample of Connors' Lizard formula. She modified the formula for her own DNA to grow back her missing legs and to give herself reptilian powers.


=== Brand New Day (2008) and beyond ===
Doctor Curt Connors appeared in the 2008 Brand New Day storyline, where he experimented with animal stem cells as well as aiding forensic specialist Carlie Cooper. The third Freak mistook Connors' stem cells experiment for drugs. Connors helped Spider-Man defeat the Freak during their second encounter.During the events of The Gauntlet, Curt Connors was working for the pharmaceutical company Phelcorp under executive Brian King. Connors had lost custody of his son, Billy, and started hearing the voice of the Lizard persona goading him to let it have control. After Connors' assistant slept with King, Connors began struggling to contain the Lizard, ultimately losing control when King stopped him from taking a dose of his Lizard suppressing antidote. When Connors changed into the Lizard, he devoured King as a rival male. Knowing that the Lizard has targeted Connors' son Billy in the past, Peter Parker decides to protect Billy and swings to his foster parents' home. There, he finds that Billy was kidnapped and his new parents are being held hostage by Ana Kravinoff. Ana had left Billy in an alley, where the Lizard ate him, the trauma of which functionally destroyed the Connors persona. Without Connors internally warring with the Lizard, he enters a metamorphasis, emerging in a new form, sporting a leaner physique, long brown spikes on its head, spikes on its right forearm, human intelligence, and the ability to telepathically communicate with the underdeveloped "lizard hindbrain" portion of human brains. He demonstrated the latter ability by triggering the instinctual prey response of Spider-man's lizard brain, temporarily overwhelming the superhero and causing him to flee in terror. Back on the street, the Lizard mentally triggered the lizard portion of numerous people's brains, causing them to behave in savage and often violent ways. Away from the Lizard, Spider-Man ingested Connors' Lizard suppressant formula, temporarily making him immune to the Lizard's mind controlling powers. Spider-Man then injected the Lizard with some of the formula, hoping that Connors would be able to resume control. Although Connors is no longer present, the formula does increase the prominence of the Lizard's "monkey brain", aka the human intelligence portion of its brain. This causes him to consider (and regret) some of his actions, including killing Billy and trying to make people embrace their lizard instincts. Reverting most of the people he had affected with his telepathic powers, The Lizard disappeared into the sewers after the fight.During the Origin of the Species, the Lizard joined Doctor Octopus's supervillain team and stole Menace's baby. As Doctor Octopus and Spider-Man fought within the Lizard's hideout, the Lizard at first attacked Spider-Man, but then gladly returned the baby. He revealed that he already took a blood sample from the baby and found out that Norman Osborn was not the father; therefore, the baby was useless to him and all of the villains. Doctor Octopus, angry about the Lizard's hypnotism obstructing his intellect, attacked him while Spider-Man escaped with the baby. Both Doctor Octopus and the Lizard survived this fight.A short time later, while investigating kidnappings in New York, the X-Men found themselves working with Spider-Man after they discovered that the abductor is the Lizard, who had been turning the victims into lizard people, while maintaining his control over the city's reptile population. The X-Men and Spider-Man discovered that the Lizard was being used by the Dark Beast, who had given the Lizard his 'reptilian shift' abilities by using a machine. During the battle, the Lizard shifted Gambit, Storm, and Wolverine into lizard people. Emma Frost and Spider-Man escaped the machine's effects, released the Lizard and used him to defeat the Dark Beast, who was arrested while the Lizard escaped.Sometime later, Dr. Michael Morbius discovered that the Lizard had used DNA samples from Billy Connors' corpse to restore Curt Connors to humanity. Unfortunately, the Lizard's psyche was still present and was pretending to be Connors so that he would be left alone. The Lizard/Connors released blood into the air supply to provoke Morbius into attacking the other lab workers. The Lizard/Connors then tried to recreate his original Lizard formula so that he could change again, but Morbius' cure instead only allowed him to regrow his missing arm. The Lizard/Connors then injected Max Modell and other Horizon Lab personnel with his formula to discover how to "cure" himself. Attempting to appear to be the "normal" Connors, the Lizard/Connors cut off his regrown limb, but the Lizard began to appreciate human life, to the point that when he found the correct Lizard serum, he contemplated remaining human, but he took the cure when Spider-Man arrived and threatened him with custody. This resulted in yet another streamlined, new form. A new cure was developed for the lab employees that he had changed, but this formula failed on the Lizard's new form; he was instead knocked out and taken to the Raft. Visiting him in the Raft, Spider-Man was unaware that the serum had restored Connors' psyche and Connors remained in prison willingly, as he felt that he deserved it for his actions as the Lizard.During the "Dying Wish" storyline, Peter Parker (whose mind was trapped within Doctor Octopus' dying body) was freed from the Raft by the Trapster, Hydro-Man, and the Scorpion. The Trapster offered to free the Lizard, but Connors declined. When Morbius the Living Vampire managed to escape his cell, the Lizard pointed out that he still had nowhere to go. For unknown reasons, Morbius then freed the Lizard.The Lizard was then seen back in his cell, being one of the few inmates left to be transported out of the decommissioned Raft. When Alistair Smythe attempted an escape from the Raft, he temporarily shut down the Raft's power, letting the Lizard out of his cell. The Lizard protected J. Jonah Jameson from the Scorpion, revealing that he had the mind of Curt Connors, and that he "will never let the monsters win again." Jameson defended the Lizard from the Raft's warden, calling him a hero, and protesting the use of a restraining device, though the Lizard himself preferred to be cautious. During Smythe's final escape attempt, the Lizard was impaled through the shoulder, but survived.As part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel event as part of the lead-up to the Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy storyline, the Lizard was shown at the Andry Corrections Facility. He was escorted to the visitor's room and his restraints were removed. After the guards left the visitor's room, the Lizard met the mysterious red-suited man where he claimed to have met Curt Connors before. The Lizard detected familiar scents accompanying the man, scents that could not be there, and warned him not to toy with the Lizard. The red-suited man replied that he was not the Lizard; inside he was Curt Connors, a model prisoner who saved Mayor J. Jonah Jameson and various civilians before and was trapped in a monster's body. The Lizard lashed out at him, demanding to know how can the people that he was smelling be there. The man said that the Lizard had abilities that he could use and if he escaped and joined him, he could give him anything. He snapped his fingers and Martha Connors and Billy Connors stepped forward, where they were somehow alive. The red-suited man asked if they have a deal. The Lizard tearfully accepted his deal. It was revealed that the revived Martha Connors and Billy Connors were clones that the red-suited man had gathered to grow clones with false memories that span all the way to their deaths. The Lizard and a depowered Electro were later sprung from Andry Corrections Facility by the Rhino on the red-suited man's behalf. The Lizard worked with the Jackal on a procedure that would repower Electro. The first time it was interrupted, the Lizard was present when the Jackal summoned a somehow-revived Francine appears in order to convince Maxwell to go through with it. The second time it was interrupted was when Martha Connors informed everyone present about a fire in Edmond, Oklahoma that neither of them was responsible for. While escaping from New U Technologies, Spider-Man and Spider-Woman of Earth-65 quickly incapacitate the Lizard. When Doctor Octopus pulled a switch which activated the Carrion Virus in all of the clones and caused them to start rapidly decaying, the Lizard saw that Martha Connors and Billy Connors were affected. During the ensuing battle, the Lizard escaped with Martha and Billy as he vowed to find a way to keep them from dying. In the sewers of San Francisco, the Lizard saved Martha and Billy Connors from the Carrion Virus by injecting them with the Lizard formula, turning his wife and son into lizard people like himself.Connors was later shown having returned to Empire State University, now using a special chip implanted in the back of his neck to control his Lizard persona, with the chip acting as an inhibitor that stopped him from attacking humans. Teaching once again, Connors offered to support Peter Parker's efforts to re-apply for his doctorate after he was academically disgraced by accusations of plagiarism of Otto Octavius' thesis since Doctor Octopus' mind was in Peter's body at the time. The inhibitor proved to be a disadvantage when Connors' class was attacked by the Taskmaster and the Black Ant and he could not defend himself.When Connors was captured by Kraven the Hunter as part of his organized hunt for various animal-themed villains, he was locked in a cell with Spider-Man while the two of them watched live footage of the Black Cat and the Lizard-esque Billy Connors being hunted, with Billy admitting that he actually remembers his original death (Connors also reveals that he had visited Doctor Strange to confirm that Billy was actually his son reborn in the cloned body created by the Jackal, even if Strange could not explain this event). Faced with a threat to his son, Connors asked Spider-Man to tear out the inhibitor chip so that he could rescue his son, despite the risk of this action leaving Connors paralyzed at best, the two unaware that Kraven had set the situation up precisely to force Spider-Man into a position where he would become the ruthless warrior that Kraven believes that he 'should' be. However, Connors managed to maintain control and retrieve Billy without killing anyone.


== Powers and abilities ==
Dr. Curtis Connors gave himself superhuman powers as a result of exposure to the Lizard Formula, allowing him to transform into the Lizard. In human form, he has none of his superhuman powers, but he is highly intelligent and a well known scientist in fields of genetics, physics, biochemistry and herpetology.
When Connors is transformed into the Lizard, his strength is increased to superhuman levels. Likewise, his speed, stamina, agility, and reflexes are also raised to a level equivalent to that of Spider-Man. He can also scale walls using a combination of his sharp claws and micro-scales on his hands and feet that create molecular friction like those of a gecko. He is highly resistant to injury due to his thick scaly hide, allowing him to resist punctures and lacerations from ordinary weapons and lower-caliber firearms. In addition, the Lizard has highly enhanced healing abilities which allow him to quickly recover from grievous wounds, including regenerating lost limbs. He also has a powerful tail which he can whip at high speeds. The Lizard has razor-sharp teeth set in muscular jaws that can deal a lethal bite (the latter is established in the Lizard's later appearances; in his earlier appearances he seems to have no teeth at all). Like a reptile, he has cold-blooded characteristics and is therefore sensitive to drops in temperature; a sufficiently cold environment will cause his metabolism to slow drastically and become dormant if he is exposed to cold temperatures for too long.The Lizard can mentally communicate and command all reptiles within a mile of himself via limited telepathy. He has also on at least one occasion secreted powerful pheromones which caused nearby humans to behave violently. Post-Brand New Day, a further enhancement of his telepathy granted him the power of telepathically compelling humans to act out their primal urges, by suppressing emotional control in their amygdala (the "lizard brain").Based on various physiological and environmental factors, the Lizard's intelligence can range from bestial and animalistic to normal human intelligence. The Lizard personality has most often manifested with human intelligence, capable of speech and higher reasoning, although some versions have been more feral than others. During the "Secret Wars" in particular, he appeared less ruthless than his normal portrayal, showing concern for Volcana and the Wasp after they showed him kindness despite his usual disdain for humans. However, even when operating at the level of a human, the Lizard is rarely as intelligent as Dr. Connors, showing on many occasions an inability to understand his human self's work and use it to further his own ends despite his best efforts.The Lizard has apparently "destroyed" the Curt Connors persona, but has subsequently begun to display some of Connors's human emotions. In contrast to his previously feral nature, he has also shown sufficient intellectual capabilities to replicate Connors' work for himself, although he is still hampered by his inability to fully comprehend human emotions.


== Continuity ==
In a 2004 story arc entitled Lizard's Tale, written by Paul Jenkins in the Spectacular Spider-Man comic book, it was revealed that the Lizard persona was not a separate personality from Dr. Connors after all — Curt had been consciously controlling his reptilian alter ego all along. Furthermore, Connors was shown to know that Peter Parker was Spider-Man, despite the discovery of the secret identity never being explained or depicted. The story ended with Dr. Connors deliberately getting himself sent to prison and hoping the Lizard would not be unleashed again. The Lizard's next appearance after this was as a member of the Sinister Twelve, where he showed no indication of being controlled by the mind of Dr. Connors. Although the idea of Connors controlling the Lizard was subsequently ignored, when the Lizard's mind was briefly trapped in Connors' human form, he attempted to mutate the staff of Horizon Labs into lizard people like himself, with none of the other lizards demonstrating the same hostility to humans as the Lizard, prompting Spider-Man to speculate that the Lizard's anti-human traits came from Connors' anger at the world for his lost arm and family rather than the Lizard being completely separate from Connors.Another continuity-related issue involves Connors' son Billy. Unlike many other Marvel Comics children, he has not appreciably grown up since the comics' stories of the 1960s. Billy's visible age also seems to waver back and forth between approximately eight and 13 years old, depending on the particular comic artist drawing the character.


== Other versions ==


=== Amazing Spider-Man: Renew Your Vows ===
In this reality, Billy used the Lizard serum on himself and is mutated like his father (though he is not as in control of himself as Curt). Curt and Billy try breaking into high tech facilities in an attempt to find Regent's tech to turn Billy back to normal, but are thwarted by Spider-Man and his daughter Spiderling. After defeating the reptilian father and son at Oscorp, Spider-Man contacts the Fantastic Four for help in curing Billy's condition.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
The one comic storyline to date featuring the Ultimate Marvel universe version of Lizard appeared in Ultimate Marvel Team-Up #10. The character has appeared in a few subsequent issues of Ultimate Spider-Man, but only in flashbacks and dream sequences. Lizard appears to be based on a basilisk lizard in design and has been presented as being less intelligent than the original Marvel iteration. Dr. Curt Conners is a noted geneticist who lost his right arm under unrevealed circumstances. He dedicated himself to finding a means of restoring lost limbs by studying the regenerative capabilities of reptiles. However, after five years without major breakthroughs, his sponsors were on the verge of cutting his funding. Drowning his disappointment with alcohol, a drunken Conners injected himself with an experimental serum in a desperate attempt to achieve results. The serum regenerated his right arm, but also transformed Conners into an inhuman reptilian creature. Seeking refuge in the sewers, he became an urban legend dubbed "the Lizard" by the press. Spider-Man sympathetically sought out Lizard who attacked the young hero until Man-Thing happened upon the scene and restored Conners to human form. Conners' restored right arm soon withered and died. However, his DNA remained irreparably damaged with dormant potential for further transformation. Conners cut himself off from his wife and son out of fear for their safety.Dr. Conners also unintentionally created the Ultimate version of Carnage using DNA from Spider-Man and based on an analysis of his old friend Richard Parker's work on the Venom symbiote. Due to the ensuing chaos, he was arrested and Stark Industries canceled their financial support of his experiments, but his assistant Ben Reilly still had one sample of Spider-Man's DNA, setting the stage for the Clone Saga. He was last seen in Ultimate Spider-Man #127, where Dr. Conners was pardoned and recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. where he and Tony Stark are at when the Triskellion was blown apart by Norman Osborn during an escape.Early details of the character's history match his 616 counterpart, with him studying reptiles to fix his arm (the cause of this has yet to be revealed), and the condition of him leaving his wife and son (Doris and Timmy) out of fear, thereby turning to alcoholism.


=== Howard the Human ===
During the Secret Wars storyline, the Battleworld domain of New Quack City has a version of Curt Connors in it. This Curt Connors is a tough, anthropomorphic lizard who is a bartender at a place that Howard the Human frequently visits.


=== Exiles ===
The reality-hopping heroic team, the Exiles, once found themselves on an alternate earth where Connors' experiment (in this world for a left arm rather than a right) had taken a different turn. Finding himself as the Lizard, Curt felt the need to "reproduce" by immediately injecting the Lizard formula into other people. He infected his family and they infected others, all feeling the urge to spread the transformation into lizard people. The forces of this particular world eventually managed to restrain the infected lizard people behind miles-long, man-made walls. When the Exiles visited this world, they discovered that Connors — having turned back into his human form a year ago — was intending to detonate a nuclear bomb in an abandoned submarine to wipe out the lizard people, but they were able to talk him down by arguing that the radioactive fallout would cause more damage, particularly since the lizard people were now mere herbivores (albeit partly because of the absence of other kinds of meat). Grief-stricken over what had become of his life, Connors subsequently killed himself.


=== Marvel 1602 ===
In this reality, Curtis Connors is a philosopher who was infected with the bubonic plague. He created an elixir that transformed him into a reptilian creature that resembled a Velociraptor, but retained his mind. He worked with Baron Victor Octavius to capture the Spider.


=== Marvel Noir ===
In the Marvel Noir reality, Curt Connors is an assistant to Dr. Otto Octavius. They operated in an abandoned hospital building on Ellis Island, where they secretly used kidnapped African Americans as specimens by turning them into mindless slaves. It is unknown what happened to Connors after federal authorities raided the hospital, though he was presumably arrested along with Octavius' associates.


=== Marvel Zombies ===
In Marvel Zombies, the Lizard, like almost every other hero and villain, has become a zombie. This particular incarnation of the Lizard is apparently destroyed when he is blasted apart by several cosmic-powered heroes while fighting (and eating) Galactus.


=== MC2 ===
The Connors family appear in the first story of the Mr. and Mrs. Spider-Man series, set in the MC2 universe. Mary Jane comforts a distraught Martha when Curt goes missing again, whilst Peter, now a parent to his infant daughter May ("Mayday"), is more hesitant than before to become Spider-Man. He is eventually encouraged by his wife to track down and prevent the Lizard's latest rampage.


=== Spider-Gwen ===
On Earth-65 where Gwen Stacy became Spider-Woman after being bitten by the spider, Peter Parker attempts to exact revenge on those who bullied him, becoming this universe's version of the Lizard. Gwen subdues him, but Peter ended up dying towards the end of the battle due to his use of the chemicals that transformed him. Spider-Woman is blamed for his death, causing an uproar for her arrest, led by J. Jonah Jameson, with Peter essentially becoming Gwen's Uncle Ben, serving as inspiration of the need to use her powers to help others.It is later revealed that Curt Connors was a teacher at Gwen's high school and was studying Lizard genetics, possibly being involved in Peter's transformation into the Lizard and the recent sightings of multiple Llzard-people wreaking havoc in the city.


=== Marvel Age ===
Lizard's history is the same in this reality. Spider-Man went to Florida to investigate the "Lizard Man" sightings. Spider-Man meets Martha Connors and learns that Lizard is her husband Dr. Curt Connors. After making an antidote, Spider-Man ensnares Lizard and uses the antidote to restore him to Curt Connors. Peter Parker later told J. Jonah Jameson that the "Lizard Man" was a hoax.


=== Captain America and Black Widow ===
A version of Lizard who wore the tentacles of Doctor Octopus, was brainwashed by Vennema Multiversal, but was freed and joined the battle against them.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
The Lizard appeared in the 1967 Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Gillie Fenwick. This version is referred to as Dr. Curt Conner and is depicted as having both of his arms. In the episode "Where Crawls the Lizard", he works on a serum intended to cure "swamp fever", but transforms him into the Lizard Man instead. He plots to create an army of lizard people like himself and take over the world, but Spider-Man foils his plans and restores him to his human form, allowing him to be reunited with his family. In the episode "Fountain of Terror", Conner finds the Fountain of Youth, but is held prisoner by its guardian, Juan Ponce de León. Though Spider-Man eventually rescues him, the Fountain of Youth is accidentally destroyed in the process. In the episode "Conner's Reptiles", Conner's experiments to increase reptiles' intelligence lead to the creation of another humanoid lizard called Reptilla (voiced by Paul Soles) from a regular alligator. Reptilla kidnaps Conner, but Spider-Man is able to rescue the latter and restore Reptilla to its original form.
The Lizard appeared in the 1981 Spider-Man animated series episode "Lizards, Lizards, Everywhere", voiced by Corey Burton. This version is never identified as Curt Connors nor is he seen in his human form. In the episode, the Lizard releases all of the zoo's reptiles in an attempt to make Manhattan a reptilian paradise, but is ultimately defeated by Spider-Man, who leaves him webbed up in an empty zoo cage.
The Lizard appeared in 1994's Spider-Man: The Animated Series, voiced by Joseph Campanella. This version of Curt Connors maintains his genius-level intellect after his transformation into the Lizard, but also has his alter ego's savage mindset from the comics. In the episode "Night of the Lizard", Dr. Connors transforms into the eponymous character after using himself as a test subject for his experiments with lizard DNA in the hopes of regenerating his right arm. While transformed, he abducts his wife Margaret and takes her to his hideout in the sewers to help him transform New York's population into lizards like himself, only to be defeated by Spider-Man and restored to his human form. In "Tablet of Time", Connors becomes the target of both Silvermane and Kingpin due to his possessing the eponymous artifact and transforms into the Lizard again before being restored to normal and kidnapped by Tombstone for Silvermane. In "The Ravages of Time", Connors is transformed into the Lizard by the Tablet's powers and subsequently cured by it. In the episode "The Final Nightmare", Connors uses the Neogenic Recombinator to restore Spider-Man to his normal age after he had his youth stolen by Vulture all while Scorpion kidnapped Dr. Farley Stillwell to reverse his own mutation. While a fight between Spider-Man, Vulture, and Scorpion breaks out, Connors tries to stop Stillwell from destroying the Recombinator in the hopes of curing himself and transforms into the Lizard, but is swiftly subdued by Spider-Man. In "The Lizard King", a number of sewer lizards become mutated by Connors' chemicals and abduct him, who transforms into the Lizard and becomes their king. With Debra Whitman's help, Margaret and Mary Jane Watson create a cure, which Spider-Man administers, restoring all the mutated lizards to their original forms. In the three-part episode "Secret Wars", the Lizard is among several supervillains that the Beyonder transports to an alien planet to engage in a war against a team of heroes led by Spider-Man, though he defects to the heroes' side after Iron Man and Mister Fantastic use a machine to allow Connors' mind to take control of the Lizard's body. Once the war is over, Connors is returned to Earth with no memories of what happened.
The Lizard appears in Spider-Man: The New Animated Series, voiced by Rob Zombie.[citation needed] This version of Curt Connors is more serious and colder than other versions, and lost his right arm as a result of an accident while testing Oscorp Industries' Wide Area Explosive Fragmentation Round (WAFER). In the episode "Law of the Jungle", Dr. Connors is depicted as Peter Parker's science teacher at Empire State University and intentionally transforms into the Lizard to exact revenge on Oscorp, maintaining his intelligence and ability to speak. Following a battle with Spider-Man, the Lizard is left hanging by webbing from a helicopter. While Spider-Man tries to reason with him, the Lizard lunges at him, cutting the web and causing him to fall to his apparent death.
Dr. Curt Connors / Lizard appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. This version also maintains his intelligence and savage mindset, but he has long since replaced his missing right arm, which he lost during his time as a combat medic, with a mechanical prosthetic arm. Curt and his wife Martha Connors play a supporting role in season one and work at Empire State University, where they employed Eddie Brock as a lab assistant and Peter Parker and Gwen Stacy as interns. After Curt's experiments with a lizard DNA serum result in his transformation into the Lizard, Spider-Man, Martha, Gwen, and Eddie develop a formula to cure him, which Spider-Man administers after a grueling battle at the zoo, restoring Curt to his human form. During the fight however, Spider-Man takes a picture of the Lizard that is later sold to the Daily Bugle. After Martha sees the picture in a newspaper, she feels Peter cannot be trusted and ends his internship, though the Connorses eventually rehire Peter. Later, the Connorses are given an alien symbiote to analyze, but it attaches itself to Spider-Man when Black Cat attempted to steal it. With the funds for their research pulled due to its loss, the Connorses reluctantly fire Brock, as they can no longer afford to have him on their payroll. In season two, the Connorses receive Miles Warren as support and a grant from Norman Osborn. After Eddie steals a vial of Curt's gene cleanser, control of the Connorses' lab falls into Warren's hands. When Curt discovers Warren's amoral genetic research, he threatens to tell the school board. However, Warren retaliates by threatening to inform them of Curt's own experiments and transformation into the Lizard. Following this, the Connorses move to Florida.
Dr. Curt Connors / Lizard appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man animated series, voiced initially by Tom Kenny (in season one), and later by Dee Bradley Baker (seasons 2-4). This version is a S.H.I.E.L.D. scientist and initially had both of his arms. However, he is forced to amputate his right arm after it was severely damaged during the Green Goblin's attack on the Helicarrier during the season one finale. The Lizard is introduced in season two. In his self-titled episode, Connors and Spider-Man retrieve several of Doctor Octopus's animal DNA formulas for Connors to study. Fascinated by their potential in medicine, he injects himself with a dose of the lizard DNA formula, which restores his right arm, albeit now covered in scales. After taking further doses, he mutates into the Lizard, ending up more feral as time goes by. Spider-Man reluctantly releases Doctor Octopus to help cure the Lizard, restoring him to his human form. In the episode "The Sinister Six", Doctor Octopus abducts Connors and forcibly turns him back into the Lizard before using a mind control device to have him join the eponymous group. While most of the Sinister Six are defeated by Spider-Man and his fellow S.H.I.E.L.D. trainees and arrested, the Lizard breaks free from Doc Ock's control and escapes. In "Stan By Me", the Lizard steals equipment from Midtown High School to render his human side dormant. Despite Spider-Man and retired S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Stan's interference, the Lizard succeeds and escapes once more. In "Return of the Sinister Six", the Lizard flees after a fight with Spider-Man and Iron Patriot, who find an antidote recipe that Connors created before the Lizard's consciousness took over. He later helps Doctor Octopus form a Sinister Six who now sport high tech armor suits made from stolen Oscorp technology. The Lizard is ultimately cured by Spider-Man, and Connors later helps the web-slinger by creating an antidote for his team after they were mutated by the Goblin. Connors makes minor appearances throughout seasons three and four, with one notable appearance being in the episode "Lizards", wherein Connors is again transformed into the Lizard by Doctor Octopus's spy and granted the ability to mutate others into anthropomorphic lizards via his bite. Ultimately, Spider-Man creates an antidote for the Lizard and all those infected by him, only to discover that the entire ordeal was a distraction for one of Doctor Octopus's plots.
The episode "Return to the Spider-Verse" Pt. 1 featured an alternate reality vampire version known as the Lizard King who lives in a vampire-infested world. With Blood Spider being his only opposition, the Lizard King collaborated with the Wolf Spider in a plot to obtain a Siege Perilous fragment to block out the sun so his vampires can rule the Earth. However, Spider-Man and Kid Arachnid combined Blood Spider's cured blood sample with the Siege Perilous piece and a UV Light to cure everyone, including the Lizard King.
In the two-part series finale "Graduation Day", Crossbones is mind-controlled and mutated into the Lizard and joins the Superior Sinister Six, but Spider-Man is able to eventually cure and free him from Doc Ock's control.
Dr. Curt Connors / Lizard appears in the 2010s Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Yuri Lowenthal. This version is a scientist working for Oscorp. In the episode "The Rise of Doc Ock Pt. 2", he comes across a secret project involving regrowing arms with reptilian DNA. When he steals an unimproved sample and injects himself with it in the hopes of regenerating his lost arm, he transforms into the Lizard and targets Norman Osborn. After the Lizard is subdued at Oscorp and restored to normal, Osborn is revealed to have been behind the cure as he wanted to manipulate events to sway Doctor Octopus to Oscorp's side before transforming Connors back into the Lizard. After he "escapes" from Oscorp, Doctor Octopus uses tainted data to create a cure for the Lizard, but this ends up transforming him into a giant lizard monster. Spider-Man and Ultimate Spider-Man eventually isolate the DNA sample and create a cure, which the two inject into a weak spot in the Lizard's head, reverting him to his human form. Connors returns in the episode "Web of Venom", wherein he is hired by Horizon High as a bio-mechanics teacher. He assists Spider-Man, Grady Scraps, and Max Modell in defeating Technovore before framing Grady for the incident under Norman's orders. After exposing Max's "corrupt operations" with the Venom symbiote to the school board, Max is placed under investigation while Connors commanders the lab. In "Spider-Man Unmasked", Connors blackmails Spider-Man into unmasking himself before the school board, resulting in Max being fired and Connors becoming Horizon High's interim headmaster until the end of the term. In "Generations" Pt. 2, it is revealed Connors collaborated with Norman in exchange for a cure to the lizard serum, only to transform into the Lizard again when he learns there is no cure. With Norman's conspiracy exposed, Max regains his old job.


=== Films ===
Curt Connors appears in Sam Raimi's Spider-Man Trilogy. The character was first mentioned by name in Spider-Man (2002) during Peter Parker's lament after being fired for being late to work. Dr. Connors physically appeared in the sequels Spider-Man 2 (2004) and Spider-Man 3 (2007), played by actor Dylan Baker. While the character does not become the Lizard in this franchise, he still lacks his right arm as in the comics. In Spider-Man 2, Connors is depicted as a Columbia University physics professor concerned for Peter's well-being and academic performance in his quantum mechanics course. He is also a friend of Otto Octavius. In Spider-Man 3, Peter turns to Connors to analyze a piece of an alien symbiote he had come into possession of. Connors agrees, warning him that it heightens aggression and to avoid touching it. In 2007, Sam Raimi expressed interest in portraying Connors' transformation into his villainous Lizard alter-ego. Baker and producer Grant Curtis were also enthusiastic about the idea. As disagreements between Sony and Raimi threatened to push the film off the intended May 6, 2011 release date, Sony Pictures announced in January 2010 that plans for Spider-Man 4 had been cancelled due to Raimi's withdrawal from the project, and the Spider-Man franchise was rebooted with The Amazing Spider-Man in 2012.
The Lizard appears in The Amazing Spider-Man, portrayed by Rhys Ifans through motion capture. In this version, Dr. Curt Connors is a biologist for Oscorp and former partner of Richard Parker, whose research focused on genetically combining animal traits with humans to improve health — such as restoring Connors' amputated right arm. Peter Parker starts a friendship with Connors after he finds his father's notes, which contain an equation for a critical breakthrough. Together they successfully formulate a serum. When Dr. Rajit Ratha, Norman Osborn's representative, fires Connors after he refuses to rush into human trials, Connors injects the serum into himself and regenerates his arm. Learning that Dr. Ratha is on his way to the VA hospital, Connors goes to intercept him, unaware that he has started taking on reptilian features. By the time he gets to the traffic congested Williamsburg Bridge, Connors has transformed into an enhanced anthropomorphic lizard and begins wreaking havoc. Spider-Man intervenes and manages to save the pedestrians caught in harm's way. The Lizard escapes into the sewers, where the serum wears off and he transforms him back into Connors, but the chemicals have affected his mind, creating an obsession with his new abilities and seeing it as "perfection". He continues to experiment further on himself in a makeshift lab. Spider-Man later confronts the Lizard in the sewers, but is forced to escape while the Lizard inadvertently learns Spider-Man's real identity after finding a camera with Peter's name on it. After two injections, the Lizard develops a mind of his own and speaks to Connors mentally; convincing him to inject himself again under the promise that he will "save" the city. Once Connors transforms, he loses complete control of himself as the Lizard's mind takes over. He follows Peter and attacks him at school, but escapes after the police arrive. The Lizard then carries out a plan to mutate all humans in New York into lizard-beings by releasing a chemical from Oscorp's tower. Following a fight with Spider-Man and mortally wounding police captain George Stacy, Spider-Man thwarts his plan after he disperses an antidote with assistance from Gwen Stacy; curing Connors and his victims. With the Lizard gone, Connors regains his sanity and saves Spider-Man from falling off the tower using the last of his strength. Afterward, he surrenders to the authorities and arrested for his crimes. In a post-credits scene, Connors is remanded to Beloit Psychiatric Hospital, where he speaks with a mysterious man regarding Richard and Peter's knowledge of him.
A viral marketing campaign for The Amazing Spider-Man 2 featured a Daily Bugle article that mentioned Curt Connors is to be put on trial with Anne Weying as his defense attorney. Connors is found guilty despite his plea that his actions were due to his serum's influence and sent to Ryker's Island. However, Dr. Ashley Kafka argues that the Ravencroft Institute for the Criminally Insane was better suited for Connors. Connors does not appear in the film itself, though he is mentioned several times throughout.
The Spider-Gwen version of Lizard makes a brief appearance in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse. During Gwen Stacy's flashback, Spider-Woman is shown defeating the Lizard, who reverts to Peter Parker and dies in Gwen's arms.


=== Video games ===
The Lizard's first video game appearance is in the 1984 Spider-Man Questprobe game.
The Lizard appeared in the 1991 Sega Spider-Man beat-em-up arcade game.
The Lizard appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man for the Game Boy as a boss who emerges from the sewers to attack Spider-Man. He returned in the game's sequel.
The Lizard appeared as a boss in The Amazing Spider-Man vs. The Kingpin.
The Lizard appeared as an optional boss in the Super NES and Genesis video game Spider-Man Animated Series. As his boss fight takes place in the sewers, the player has the option to avoid him by escaping the location. When he is defeated, he transforms back into Dr. Connors, though in the SNES version of the game, attacking Connors once he has been restored to normal will cause him to turn back into Lizard, with more power than he previously had. In the Genesis version, he will transform into Lizard automatically after a short time, but he does not become invincible or stronger. He is also a mini boss in the final level of the SNES version, where he cannot be attacked after turning back into Connors.
The Lizard was a boss in the Japan-exclusive Super Famicom video game Spider-Man: Lethal Foes.
The Lizard appears in the 2000 Spider-Man video game developed by Neversoft, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. He plays a small role in the game, having been trapped by Venom in a cage in the NYC sewer system to take control of his lizard-men experiments. While chasing Venom through the sewers, Spider-Man comes across Lizard, who reveals what happened before pointing Spider-Man to Venom's lair. The hero leaves, leaving the imprisoned Lizard behind.
The Lizard appears as a boss Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro, voiced again by Dee Bradley Baker. When Spider-Man comes to Bio Tech to seek Connors' help in learning more about the Bio-Nexus Device, he finds that Connors has transformed into the Lizard and is forced to cure him. Afterwards, Connors reveals that he was present when Electro stole the device to become a god and advises Spider-Man to investigate its creator, Dr. Watts, to learn more about it.
Curt Connors appears in the Treyarch version of the Spider-Man 2 game, voiced by Joe Alaskey. He is Peter Parker's science teacher and an old friend and colleague of Dr. Otto Octavius. Originally, the Lizard was supposed to have been included in the game, as evidenced by his prominent appearances in the game's promotional material, before he was suddenly removed. However, hints towards the Lizard were included in the final game, such as Doctor Octopus breaking Connors' right arm. In the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS versions of the game, the Lizard appears as an actual boss.
The Lizard appears as a mini-boss in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by James Arnold Taylor. Having been recruited into Doctor Doom's Masters of Evil, he is sent to Asgard to guard a recently defeated Tyr alongside Scorpion before they are defeated by Spider-Man, Captain America, Thor, and Wolverine. He also appears in a simulation disk, during which the heroes try and fail to reach Connors.
The Lizard is a main character in the Spider-Man 3 video game, voiced by Nathan Carlson. In the game, Dr. Curt Connors is Peter Parker's science teacher and, similarly to the comics, becomes the Lizard after injecting himself with a lizard DNA serum in the hopes of regaining his missing right arm. He goes on to kidnap and convert numerous people into lizards as part of a plot to replace New York's population with reptiles. While he is thwarted by Spider-Man, the Lizard manages to escape. He is later hunted by Kraven the Hunter and Calypso, the latter of whom uses a magic potion to transform him into "Mega Lizard". After defeating Mega Lizard, Spider-Man restores him back to his human form and takes Connors to the hospital. He later helps Connors atone for his actions as the Lizard by curing all the people he transformed. In the PS2, PSP and Wii versions of the game, Connors also helps Spider-Man analyze a piece of his symbiote costume and treat Dr. Michael Morbius' vampirism.
The Lizard appears as a playable character in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, voiced by Roger L. Jackson. This version is portrayed as an anti-hero searching the Earth for a cure to his condition. After encountering Spider-Man in Egypt, the Lizard joins forces with him to stop an invasion of P.H.A.N.T.O.M.s created by Mysterio; becoming a playable character.
The Lizard appears as a boss in the Wii, NDS, PS2, and PSP versions of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Marc Samuel. After the Fold takes control of him via nanites, they send Lizard and a group of supervillains to attacks the heroes at Prison 42, but they are all ultimately defeated. In a bonus mission, the Lizard attacks a group of S.H.I.E.L.D agents in the sewers before being defeated by the Thing.
The Lizard appears as a primary character and the final boss in The Amazing Spider-Man video game, voiced by Steve Blum. The game continues on from the events of The Amazing Spider-Man film, and sees a number of cross-species experiments created by Oscorp using Connors' research escaping into Manhattan and infecting its population with a deadly virus. Spider-Man reluctantly releases Connors from prison to help develop a cure, which they eventually succeed in doing. When Alistair Smythe begins destroying the city in his attempt to save it and strips Spider-Man of his powers, Connors reluctantly transforms into the Lizard to face him. After recovering his powers, Spider-Man helps the Lizard defeat Smythe, but Connors succumbs to the Lizard's consciousness and flees into the sewers. Upon defeating and restoring the Lizard back to normal again, Connors willingly returns to prison. The Lizard becomes a playable character in the Lizard Rampage DLC pack.
The Lizard appears in Marvel Super Hero Squad Online.
The Lizard appears a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced again by Steve Blum. This version is able to switch between his human form and reptilian alter ego at will. In a bonus mission at the Central Park Zoo's Reptile House, Spider-Man and the Thing stumble upon Dr. Connors' secret lab, where he was attempting to perfect his Lizard serum. The pair ultimately defeat the Lizard and stop his experiments.
The Lizard appears in Marvel Heroes. In the one-shot mission that he appears in, Lizard breaks out of prison alongside Calvin Zabo before they both make their way to the former's hidden lab at the Bronx Zoo. After Zabo becomes Mister Hyde, he injects Lizard with his Hyde serum and turns him into a more powerful version of himself before using his Lizard/Hyde serum to infect the Bronx Zoo's water supply, resulting in hybrids of lizards and other animals being created.
The Lizard appears as a boss in the Facebook game Marvel: Avengers Alliance and a lockbox villain for PVP Season 27.
The Lizard appears as a boss in Marvel: Avengers Alliance 2.
The Lizard appears as a playable character and a villain in Marvel: Future Fight.
The Lizard appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2. In a bonus mission, Dr. Connors tricks Venom and Carnage into coming to his lab at Oscorp before capturing them for experimentation. After the symbiotes escape from their containment and confront him, Connors transforms into the Lizard to fight them, but is ultimately defeated.


=== Toys and collectibles ===
The first Lizard action figure was produced by Mego in 1974 as part of their "World's Greatest Super-Heroes" line of toys.
Lizard has been reproduced in action figure form several times by Toy Biz from 1994 through 2006, first as part of their Spider-Man: The Animated Series line, then as part of Spider-Man Classics, and finally as part of their Marvel Legends series. The Spider-Man Classics figure was later repainted and reissued by Hasbro.
Hasbro released a Lizard figure as part of their 2007 Spider-Man 3 series of toys. The figure is based on the design seen in the Spider-Man 3 video game.
The character has been statues reproduced as a mini-busts by both Art Asylum and Bowen Designs, who also released a full statue of the character.
The incarnation in Spectacular Spider-Man animated TV series was released as an action figure by Hasbro in late 2008.
Hasbro released several toys and action figures of Lizard for The Amazing Spider-Man film toy line in 2012.


=== Live performance ===
Lizard appears as a member of the Sinister Six in the Broadway show Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark played by Brandon Rubendall.
Lizard appears in the Marvel Universe: LIVE! arena show.


== Reception ==
The Lizard was ranked No. 9 on a listing of Marvel Comics' monster characters in 2015.


== References ==


== External links ==
Lizard at Marvel.com
Ultimate Marvel's Lizard at Marvel.com
Lizard at Marvel Wiki
Ultimate Marvel's Lizard at Marvel Wiki
Lizard's Profile at Spiderfan.org
Lizard at the Villains Wiki