Lockjaw (comics)

Lockjaw is a fictional character in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is an Inhuman giant bulldog whose abilities include teleportation. He serves the Inhuman Royal Family as their escort and as a loyal protector.
Lockjaw made his live action debut in the 2017 Marvel Cinematic Universe TV series Inhumans.


== Publication history ==
He first appeared in Fantastic Four #45 (December 1965), and was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby.


== Fictional character biography ==
Lockjaw was born on the island of Attilan (formerly in the Atlantic Ocean and eventually moved to the Moon). Many times he has brought Inhumans to Earth and back again. At times, his powers have been manipulated by evil forces, most usually by Maximus the Mad. Lockjaw and the Royal Family encountered Maximus' creation, the Trikon, and were driven from Attilan's Great Refuge in exile.Lockjaw first appeared as a member of the Inhumans when they attempted to retrieve Medusa from the outside world and take her back to Attilan. This led them into conflict with the Fantastic Four, the first humans they met, who were harboring Medusa after rescuing her from the villainous Frightful Four. Accordingly, Lockjaw is indirectly responsible for revealing the existence of Attilan to the outside world. They returned to Attilan and became trapped in Maximus' "negative zone" barrier around the Great Refuge.Lockjaw is able to escape and becomes separated from his city. He roams the country for some time, accidentally terrorizing the local citizens, until he meets up with Johnny Storm and Wyatt Wingfoot. He journeyed with the pair in their attempt to breach the "negative zone" barrier. Before long, the Inhumans were freed from the "negative zone" barrier, and Lockjaw transported Crystal to New York, and brought Triton from Attilan to rescue Mister Fantastic. Lockjaw was later compelled to return Crystal to Attilan by Maximus.With Crystal, Lockjaw was captured by Diablo. They later rescued the injured Quicksilver. Before long, Lockjaw attended the wedding of Quicksilver and Crystal. He also brought the Fantastic Four to Attilan to battle Thraxton.


=== Seemingly speaking ===
At one point, Quicksilver and the Thing witnessed what appeared to be Lockjaw, apparently a sentient being once mutated by Terrigen Mists, speaking to them. This convinces Quicksilver not to expose his daughter Luna to the Mists. However, Lockjaw later brought Quicksilver to Washington, D.C., in search of X-Factor, and Quicksilver there stated that Lockjaw's sentience was actually a hoax perpetrated on the Thing by Karnak and Gorgon.Lockjaw brought the other Inhumans to Earth in search of Medusa when she fled Attilan to avoid a compulsory abortion. He also transported the injured Triton back to Attilan. With Crystal, he later summoned the Avengers to help battle Thane Ector and the Brethren. With the Avengers, he battled the Brethren.As noted in Ka-Zar #12, Lockjaw also travels to the Heroes Reborn universe with his Inhuman family. This visit lasts for about a year; all are returned successfully.Having always been particularly fond of Ben Grimm, Lockjaw elects to stay with him. Ben, fondly recounting that he "always wanted a dog", accepted. It is not known why Lockjaw did not accompany Ben Grimm when he felt the need to retreat to France during the Civil War.Lockjaw is featured into the 2006 limited series Son of M. With the majority of the mutants on Earth having been rendered powerless, Quicksilver decides to steal the Inhumans mutagenic Terrigen Mists and re-power willing mutants. Lockjaw is convinced to help him on the mission. Traveling with Quicksilver's daughter Luna, they traverse the Earth, heading to such places as Genosha. The other Inhumans follow.Later, Lockjaw rejoins Black Bolt, Medusa and other Inhumans in order to assist a super-human strikeforce in taking down the confused Sentry.Lockjaw assists his family tracking down Black Bolt, who had been captured by the Skrulls. Using technology gained from their allies, the Kree, Lockjaw's abilities are upgraded, allowing him to teleport much farther.


=== New allies ===
In 2009, Lockjaw received a four-issue mini-series titled Lockjaw and the Pet Avengers, teaming with Lockheed, Redwing, Ms. Lion (Aunt May's puppy from Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends), Zabu, Niels the Cat/Hairball, and a new frog named Throg. This series involves Lockjaw bringing the Infinity Gauntlet together with the assistance of animal allies. The series spawned two additional mini-series with the Pet Avengers.
Lockjaw re-joins his Inhuman family for the conflicts that eventually led to them taking over the Kree empire. This leads to the seeming loss of Black Bolt despite Crystal and Lockjaw's best efforts. This conflict also leads to the ravaging of the Shi'ar Empire. As his family determines who will rule, Lockheed is seen playing closely with Luna and assisting with Shi'ar recovery efforts. Lockjaw again becomes involved with gathering the Infinity Gauntlet together when the Soul Gem is lost and later found. Lockjaw was also sent by Medusa to keep an eye on recent Inhuman Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan), and helps her in her battle against a cockatiel/human hybrid clone of Thomas Edison known as The Inventor.During the Inhumans vs. X-Men storyline, Lockjaw was taking a nap when he is knocked out by Fantomex.At the time when Lockjaw was on a mission to free Black Bolt from the deep space torture prison, a flashback revealed that Lockjaw got his powers during an Inhuman experiment on canines.In the pages of "Death of the Inhumans," the Kree eventually initiated a murdering mission to bring Black Bolt to their ranks and across the stars as thousands of Inhumans were killed by Vox, the first of a new race of Super-Inhuman, built by the Kree. Black Bolt quickly sent Lockjaw to bring his brother to him, however Vox had already reached New Arctilan and was fighting Maximus when Lockjaw arrived, and while the canine was able to temporarily take down the Super-Inhuman, the latter released his full power that not only burned down New Arctilan but in the process also apparently killed Lockjaw and Maximus.


== Powers and abilities ==
Lockjaw can teleport himself and nearby living creatures and matter to any destination on the Earth or the Moon. He can also open passages between dimensions. Energy barriers that are seemingly impenetrable to others seem to pose no problem to him. Lockjaw also has the ability to psionically trace a given "scent" across dimensional space.
Lockjaw also once seemingly sensed danger from far off, when Doctor Doom had manipulated Silver Surfer's powers.Lockjaw is capable of chewing and swallowing inorganic material, such as scraps of sophisticated robots, with no ill effect. It is not known if this is his primary source of nourishment.Lockjaw seemingly has "super-canine" strength in his jaw. Once he locked on to the Thing's arm and the Thing could not get him to let go. 
In the Secret Invasion: Inhumans mini-series, the Royal Family enter into an alliance with the Kree to free Black Bolt from his Skrull captors. To that end, the Kree greatly enhance Lockjaw's teleportation powers, enabling him to teleport himself and others over vast interplanetary distances.


== Other versions ==


=== Age of Apocalypse ===
In the reality where Apocalypse had conquered North America, Apocalypse approached the Inhumans to gain access to the Terrigen Mist; however the Inhumans refused to deliver such material, until one of them, Maximus, made a secret deal with Apocalypse. Maximus would give the Terrigen Mist to Apocalypse if the High Lord granted him a position in the Horsemen. Maximus then took over the Inhumans Royal Family, slaying all those who stood in his way, including Lockjaw. As the new Death, Maximus created twisted clones based on the royal family that were loyal to him. The clone of Lockjaw clashed with the X-Men when they traveled to the Blue Area of the Moon to try to kill Apocalypse during a time when he was recuperating there. Lockjaw used its tuning fork to knock out Morph. The X-Men freed themselves and defeated Maximus. Despite the Inhumans' initial victory, Lockjaw and all of the Royal Family were killed when the Ship was destroyed by Sunfire.


=== Earth X ===
In the alternate future of Earth X, Lockjaw is shot by some gaseous bullet and murdered by Maximus. His teleportation-forehead assembly is seemingly the only part of him that has survived. It is used by Black Bolt and the other Inhumans to investigate happenings on Earth.


=== Marvel Knights 2099 ===
Lockjaw is one of the few Royal family members to survive to the year 2099; Maximus the Mad had slain the rest. The Inhumans had established themselves on a space station also called Attilan.


=== Marvel Zombies ===
Lockjaw appears zombified along with the Royal Family of the Inhumans, creating a portal for them to meet with the Kingpin. He is later seen trying to attack Machine Man. The heroic android tricks Lockjaw into teleporting to the mainstream Marvel Universe. Lockjaw is tricked into eating an explosive-laden human brain. He is destroyed in the explosion. Another Lockjaw is seen when the zombie virus spreads to "Earth Z". He too is zombiefied and assists in slaying the "Warbound". He was captured by Machine Man, Ultron and Jocasta.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
Lockjaw also appears in Ultimate Fantastic Four Annual #1. In this incarnation, he has teleportation powers as well. He leaves the Inhumans' Himalayan refuge with Crystal, who is running away because she was being forced to marry Black Bolt's brother, Maximus (only Crystal suspects he is mad). Lockjaw assists in saving Crystal from her pursuing guards but they eventually drag her back home anyway. They leave him behind and he brings the Fantastic Four for assistance. This is not well received as most of Inhuman society severely dislikes any outsiders. Black Bolt ends up destroying the evacuated Attilan simply because the Four "contaminated" it. Several of the Inhumans indicate they had conspired for Lockjaw to be left behind in the human world.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Lockjaw appears in the 1978 Fantastic Four animated series. In the episode "Blastaar, the Living Bomb Burst," he teams up with Blastaar.
Lockjaw appears in the 1994 Fantastic Four animated series. In the episode "Hopelessly Impossible," he helps the Human Torch get the Impossible Man to the Great Refuge and away from the Super-Skrull.
Lockjaw appears in the Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. episode "Inhuman Nature." In the episode "Planet Monster" Pt. 2, Lockjaw (alongside Black Bolt and Gorgon) are among the superheroes that help the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. and the Avengers fight the forces of the Supreme Intelligence.
Lockjaw appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man. In the episode "Inhumanity", he is among the Inhumans that are mind-controlled by Maximus the Mad. In the episode "Agent Web", he was with the Inhuman Royal Family when they confronted Spider-Man and Triton outside the abandoned Inhuman city of Atarog and was the one who gave Spider-Man and Triton a ride back to the Triskelion.
Lockjaw appears in the Guardians of the Galaxy. In the episode "Crystal Blue Persuasion", he brings the Guardians of the Galaxy to Attilan at the time when the Inhumans have come down with a plague that causes crystals to grow on their bodies. Lockjaw was present when Maximus uses mind-control technology on Black Bolt. When Ronan the Accuser steals Maximus' mind-control helmet as part of his plan to destroy Attilan, Lockjaw is ordered by a mind-controlled Black Bolt to take him and Star-Lord to the Terrigen Crystal caverns beneath Attilan. Upon Star-Lord using the CryptoCube, Lockjaw was among the Inhumans cured of the plague. After Medusa thanks the Guardians of the Galaxy on Black Bolt's behalf, Star-Lord has Lockjaw fetch his baseball. In the episode "Inhuman Touch", Lockjaw helps the Guardians of the Galaxy when Maximus tricks his way out of prison. Throughout the episode, Lockjaw tries to tangle with Groot only for Groot to throw a stick he grows so that Lockjaw can fetch it.
Lockjaw appears in the Avengers: Ultron Revolution. In the episode "Inhumans Among Us", he is shown with Black Bolt, Medusa, Gorgon, and Karnak at the time when an Inhuman ship carrying Seeker and the Alpha Primitives crashes into the mountains near Maple Falls. Lockjaw had to take Hulk to the Inhuman laboratories on Attilan in order to obtain a Terrigen Crystal for a device to dispose of the Terrigen Fog. Upon arrival, Lockjaw sprained his paw causing Hulk to carry him while evading the Inhuman soldiers who mistook Hulk for trying to harm Lockjaw. Once they find the Terrigen Crystal, they teleport back to Maple Falls just in time to use the device following Inferno hatching from his Terrigen cocoon. In the episode "The Inhuman Condition," Lockjaw brings the Avengers to Attilan in order to help Black Bolt fight Ultron who has invaded and captured the other Inhumans. During the fight, Lockjaw tried to rip off Ultron's leg to no avail.
Lockjaw appears in the live-action series Inhumans. He is once again Crystal's pet and faithful companion, though it is implied that he isn't really smart. After helping the Royal Family escape Attilan when Maximus starts a coup d'état, Lockjaw is stunned by Pulssus and imprisoned in the Quiet Room while Crystal is placed under house arrest. Thanks to a trick to get away from Maximus, Crystal revives him with her powers and they escape to Hawaii, but Lockjaw is immediately injured by a passing motorist named Dave. He is revived to full health by Dave's ex-girlfriend Audrey. Afterwards, he teleports Crystal, Black Bolt, and Medusa back to Karnak upon reuniting with them. Lockjaw then returns his family back to Attilan to stop Maximus and finally returns them back to Earth when Attilan begins to fall. He is last seen with the evacuated Inhumans as Medusa makes a speech about the Inhumans finding a new home on Earth.


=== Film ===
Lockjaw appears in Marvel Rising: Secret Warriors, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.


=== Video games ===
Lockjaw appears as a non-playable hero in the video game Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. His duty was to send the heroes to the Shi'ar galaxy and Skrull homeworld to gather implements necessary to defeating a divinely-empowered Doctor Doom. Also though not there in appearance, the game implies that the mini-portals used in the game for midpoint to home-base transport are made by Lockjaw since every time the player tries to create a portal outside the circumstances when that is possible, the message "Lockjaw cannot create a portal in that area" appears. This creates somewhat of a continuity error since when the player gains that ability, it is attributed to an experimental teleportation device created by S.H.I.E.L.D. He also has special "conversations" with Spider-Man, Deadpool, and Thing.
Lockjaw appears as a non-playable character in Marvel: Contest of Champions that only appears on the Gifting Badge and in Have You Seen This Dog? dialogue.
Lockjaw appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
Lockjaw is a playable character in the match-three mobile and PC game Marvel Puzzle Quest. He was added to the game in September 2017. He is the third playable animal character in the game, after Howard the Duck and Devil Dinosaur.
A statue of Lockjaw appears in the 2018 Spider-Man video game. The developers originally wanted to include Wall Street's Charging Bull, but replaced it with Lockjaw to avoid legal issues.


=== Non-fiction ===
The debate over Lockjaw's sentience is discussed in Peter David's non-fiction book Writing For Comics. In this, he discussed how he tried to go with Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's original assertion that Lockjaw was a 'dumb animal'. He appears in a discussion of Marvel comics in a reprinted segment of a Casey At The Bat parody in The Penguin Book of Comics. In the context, he has accompanied Crystal to the baseball game.


== Reception ==
In August 2009, TIME listed Lockjaw as one of the "Top 10 Oddest Marvel Characters".


== References ==


== External links ==
Lockjaw at the Marvel Universe wiki
Marvel Directory profile
The Inhumans at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on September 17, 2016.