
Lord of Light (Nathan Tyler) is the father of Tandy Bowen in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Bill Mantlo and Bret Blevins, first appeared in Strange Tales Vol. 2 #1 (April 1987).
Tyler married Melissa Bowen and together they had a daughter named Tandy. As time went on, Melissa grew into a hateful materialistic woman, causing Tyler to leave his home for good. He left his entire estate to her while he traveled to India to search for enlightenment.He studied under several gurus until he learned how to absorb and distribute light. This power caused the negative effect of killing people and thus would initially only use it on the ones who were dying. But as time went on, he started using it on innocents. He gained a following and earned the name the Lord of Light until one day he ran into his daughter and Tyrone Johnson now going by Cloak and Dagger. He temporarily cured Tyrone of the darkness and then tried to convert Tandy so that they could both reach godhood. Tyrone and Tandy battled Tyler who was attempting to drain the light from the latter when his daughter refused. Realizing what he had become, Tyler kills himself by diving into Tyrone's cloak and is devoured by the Predator who lived in the Darkforce Dimension.


=== Lord of Light in other media ===
The character renamed Nathan Bowen appears in the live-action series Cloak & Dagger, portrayed by Andy Dylan. This version is a worker at Roxxon. After picking Tandy up from ballet practice, he gets a call about an incident at the Roxxon Gulf Platform and says to shut it down. This leads to a car accident that causes Nathan to drive his car off the bridge. While Tandy survived, Nathan didn't which led to Roxxon confiscating his work from his home much to Melissa's devastation. Nathan was mentioned when Melissa told Brigid O'Reilly that Nathan was posthumously fired from Roxxon and confiscated his work. Tyrone later experience a vision of Tandy being unable to do something as it shows Nathan getting suffocated by Roxxon's executives; this led to Tyrone's Darkforce abilities used to keep Tandy from running away. A hallucination of him is seen when Tandy and Tyrone enter the mind of Ivan Hess (Nathan's co-worker). It is revealed that he had been calling Ivan shortly before the Roxxon Gulf Platform blew up. It is also revealed that Nathan was far from perfect and would hit Melissa, crushing Tandy's view of him. A vision of Nathan is seen when Tandy was out with Andre Deschaine. Tandy enters the Darkforce Dimension and encounters repressed memories on when Nathan and Melissa had their heated arguments. Andre's powers show Tandy in different lives: one is where both Nathan and Billy Johnson survived their encounters and the families grew close, and another has Nathan relocated to Silicon Valley while Tandy follows in his footsteps as a gifted student. The third one had Tandy who left her parents and survived on the streets. Andre creates a manifestation of Nathan to mess with Tandy while Tyrone fights his perfect life counterpart. After a brief trade-off that was undone by Andre, Tandy told the manifestation of her father that he will be better than him as Tandy creates a light sword to use on Nathan's manifestation.


