
Luis is a fictional character who originated in the Marvel Cinematic Universe before appearing in Marvel comics. The character, created by Edgar Wright, Joe Cornish, Adam McKay and Paul Rudd, first appeared in the 2015 film Ant-Man.


=== Luis in film ===
Introduced in the 2015 film Ant-Man where he was portrayed by Michael Peña, Luis is Scott Lang's best friend and former cell mate at San Quentin State Prison. Luis' reason for imprisonment was due to him stealing two smoothie machines, which he seems unusually proud of. Due to Scott's estrangement from his ex-wife, Luis lets Scott stay with him and his two friends Dave and Kurt (played by Tip "T.I." Harris and David Dastmalchian respectively). However, Luis' primary reason for doing so was so that Scott could help rob Hank Pym's house. With no other choice, Scott helps him leading into a series of events that starts Scott's eventual reformation and acceptance of the Ant-Man mantle. Later, Scott calls upon Luis and his friends into helping break into Cross Technologies. Luis goes disguised as a security guard and expresses uneasiness, yet excitement at being a "good guy" and then reaffirms this by rescuing a guard he had earlier knocked out. He, along with Dave and Kurt, attempt to aid in Scott's final battle with Darren Cross, but are scared away by the abundance of police officers in the area. At the end of the film, Luis informs Scott that he heard that the Falcon was looking for Scott.
In the 2018 sequel Ant-Man and the Wasp where Peña reprised his role, Luis founds X-Con Security Consultants along with Scott, Kurt and Dave. Luis conducts business despite Scott being placed under house arrest (due to the events of the 2016 film Captain America: Civil War), and occasionally takes part in playing with Cassie Lang. When Scott arrives with Hope van Dyne and Hank, Luis happily chooses to work with the three in capturing Ava Starr. Later on, however, Luis, Kurt and Dave are captured by Sonny Burch who injects Luis with truth serum to make him reveal where Scott and Hank are. Through effort, Luis gives up Scott and Hank's location to Burch and Ava. Luis, Kurt and Dave take part in the chase through San Francisco, knocking out Burch and using the truth serum for revenge. After Scott is released from house arrest, Luis works alongside his friend and their company is hired for a new business.


=== Luis in comics ===
Luis made his comic book debut in The Astonishing Ant-Man #1 (December 2015), by Nick Spencer and Ramon Rosanas. He is once again Scott Lang's cell mate, but does not have any speaking lines. He does seem to sympathize with Scott, as he looked helpless watching Scott getting beaten up by other inmates.


=== Luis in other media ===
Luis appears in Lego Marvel's Avengers, voiced by Michael Peña. He narrates the "Ant-Man" DLC.


