
Nyx was created by Al Ewing, Jim Zub, Mark Waid and Joshua James Shaw, based on the goddess by the same name and first appeared in Avengers: No Road Home #1 and making her last appearance in Avengers: No Road Home #10. She's not to be confused with Nox, based on the same goddess, who was revealed to be a usurper.Nyx was born in the pure emptiness and was one of the Olympians who were once worshiped as gods by the Greeks, as she was worshiped as the Goddess of the Night and the Darkness. At some point, she gave birth to her children Hypnos, Oizys, and the twins Dolos and Apate. Due to her malevolent nature, Zeus imprisoned Nyx in such a manner that she would remain trapped until "the sun was parted from the earth," and hid the Night Shards within her soul in three secret places throughout the Universe.During Avengers: No Surrender, where the Elder of the Universe, Grandmaster and the Challenger, fought each other, the Earth was removed from its orbit and it was returned at the end of the game, but its removal ended Nyx's containment. In revenge, she sought out to bring an eternal night throughout the Universe, even on planets with multiple suns and bases contained within suns. She took her revenge on the Olympians and with the help of her children, they killed all of the Olympian gods, including Zeus after retrieving information about her hidden Night Shards. However, Zeus threatened and promised to her that his son, Hercules and the "Avengers of the Wronged" would avenge him.
She was then approached by Hercules, Scarlet Witch, Vision, Hulk, Hawkeye, Rocket Raccoon, Voyager, Monica Rambeau and eventually Conan.
Nyx retrieved her Shards of Night from Nightmare, Lord Librarian and the Hyborian Age, but at the cost of her childrens' life. After that, with the help of the Cosmic Being, Euphoria, she arrived to her final destination in Long Island, where the One Above All's House of Ideas was. Vision made it through the door entrance of the House of Ideas to stop her from wiping out the existence. During her fight with Vision, he used the powers of the House and with his imagination, constructed many heroes to battle Nyx. She was then killed by Vision by burning her into flames, causing her to be disintegrated.
Powers and abilitiesBeing a goddess of darkness, she can wield the darkness in a physical way, or even to cause someone blindness. Nyx was also capable of conceiving children without a partner, seemingly sired by her strongest feelings at the moment. Nyx possesses superhuman strength even in a weakened state, she was able to break the neck of Zeus and could use her nails as claws and was able to make the Hulk bleed. Nyx  was also shown to be able to teleport.


