
The One Below All is the "dark reflection" of the One-Above-All, created by Al Ewing and Joe Bennett, and first appeared in Immortal Hulk #5 in the form of Bruce Banner's father, Brian Banner. Alluded to as the qlippoth, or "Hulk", of God, the One Below All is a malevolent and destructive force; when it speaks, it states that "I howl through many mouths. I break with many hands. They are themselves, but they are also me. I have all the power you give me and my weapon is hate.", in contrast to the One-Above-All's statement that "I see through many eyes. I build with many hands. They are themselves, but they are also me. I am all-powerful. My only weapon is love.". The One Below All is alluded to as the source of all gamma mutations in the Marvel Universe.
The One Below All resides in the Below Place which is the deepest layer of Hell. It, as well as the Below Place, is kept behind a metaphysical 'Green Door'. This was first discovered by Brian Banner in a dream. The One Below All is also assumed to be the reason Brian began to drink, lose his mind, and eventually kill his wife. When it came to the day of the first gamma bomb test, helmed by Bruce Banner, the One Below All's powers were released when the power of its detonation partially opened the Green Door and created the first gamma mutate, the Hulk.The One Below All possessed Jailbait of the Riot Squad who lost control of her powers. When she died, her brother Hotshot had to hold a church hostage in order to perform the last rites of Jailbait. He claimed that Jailbait was possessed by the Devil. Then the One Below All possessed Sasquatch after he was killed in a bar fight. This drove Sasquatch on a feral rampage until Hulk defeated Sasquatch and drained the gamma energy out of him until Sasquatch regressed back to Walter Langkowski. Through this absorption of Sasquatch's Gamma energy, the One Below All then transferred into Banner, mocking Hulk from within Banner's mind with the image of Brian Banner. Brian's ghost was able to regain some control of himself and told Hulk about the One Below All's plan to enter and control a host body.The One Below All managed to gain control of Absorbing Man's body through an experimental procedure using gamma radiation to make him strong enough to fight the Hulk. When his soul encountered the One Below All, Absorbing Man was unable to comprehend its true form, so much so that his physical body was possessed and split in half, and made its way to the site of the first gamma bomb detonation. While fighting Hulk, The One Below All absorbed a great deal of his gamma energy, rendering him weak and misshapen. The two reached a stalemate, with Hulk reabsorbing energy only for Absorbing Man to take it back again, until Puck uses a specialised weapon to blast a hole through the Hulk's chest, while Absorbing Man escapes. Using the ambient gamma radiation from the gamma bomb's detonation, The One Below All uses Absorbing Man to open the Green Door and plunges New Mexico into the Below Place.After Hulk and Bruce Banner split apart, the One Below All appears in its 'true' cloud form as it prepares to take over the rest of Earth. When Hulk opposes its plan, the One Below All unleashes demons, shaped like the empty 'husks' of people, on him, one in particular the husk of General Ross, which transforms into a husk Red Hulk to fight. With help from Absorbing Man and Puck, Hulk was able to reabsorb Absorbing Man's gamma radiation and use his thunder clap to disperse the One Below All's cloud form and end his threat to the world.Doctor Strange later spoke to Mephisto about removing the One Below All's possession from Hulk after the brief Defenders reunion. Mephisto states that the One Below All is far stronger than he is.A flashforward to the end of the Marvel Universe shows the One Below All to have taken over the body of the Hulk and consumed the sentience of the cosmos, forcibly taking on the same role as Galactus for the next iteration of the multiverse and becoming the "Breaker of Worlds".During the "Absolute Carnage" storyline, Bruce Banner had a theory that Knull can either be an aspect of the One Below All or a creature that it controls.


