
Phage is the name used by a symbiote in Marvel Comics. The symbiote, created by David Michelinie and Ron Lim, first appeared in Venom: Lethal Protector #4 (May 1993), and was named in Carnage, U.S.A. #2 (March 2012) after an unrelated character from the Venom: The Hunted comic storyline and Venom: Along Came A Spider toyline. The Phage symbiote is one of five symbiote "children" forcefully spawned from the Venom symbiote alongside four other symbiotes: Agony, Riot, Lasher and Scream.
Phage's first host was Carl Mach, a mercenary hired by Carlton Drake's Life Foundation in San Francisco. Carl bonded with the Phage symbiote in conjunction to Scream (Donna Diego), Agony (Leslie Gesneria), Lasher (Ramon Hernandez) and Riot (Trevor Cole). Phage and his four symbiote "siblings" are defeated by Spider-Man and Venom. The symbiotes "siblings" later kidnap Eddie Brock out of prison in an attempt to communicate with their alien symbiotes in Chicago. When Eddie refused to aid, Carl was killed with a sonic knife after Leslie; the others were initially mislead into thinking Brock was picking the group off but Scream, having snapped from Donna's schizophrenia and the Scream symbiote's influence, was the killer.The Phage symbiote later merged with three other symbiotes (Riot, Lasher and Agony) into the Hybrid symbiote, until a military group later separated the four symbiotes for the U.S. Government. 
Phage's second host was Rico Axelson, a Lieutenant assigned the Phage symbiote within the Mercury Team special force. When Carnage is loose in Colorado, Rico trained with the Phage symbiote for months for specific tasks alongside Riot (Howard Odgen), Lasher (Marcus Simms) and Agony (James Murphy). Rico and his teammates are eventually killed by Carnage in their secret base. The four symbiotes bond to Deadpool to fight Carnage, and then bond with Mercury Team's dog (the sole survivor of Carnage's attack against the taskforce).During the "Absolute Carnage" storyline, the symbiote-infected dog comes across a family who keep fighting. After the dog is invited inside their house, the boy Billy is there when the Knull-possessed symbiotes erupt as the Agony and Riot symbiotes take over Sadie's parents. Horrified, the kids try to escape but the Phage symbiote bonds to Billy and the Lasher symbiote later bonds with Sadie. The family then decide to go to New York and help Carnage's quest.


=== Phage in other media ===
Phage (Carl Mach) appeared as a boss character in Spider-Man and Venom: Separation Anxiety.
The Phage symbiote appears as an alternate design for Hybrid (Scott Washington) in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Phage (Carl Mach) appears as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.


