Prometheus (Marvel Comics)

For the DC Comics version, see Prometheus (DC Comics), for the familiar sounding character see Proteus (Marvel Comics)Prometheus is the name of two fictional characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The first one is based on the Greek Titan of the same name while the second one is a member of the Pantheon.


== Publication history ==
The mythological Prometheus first appeared in Avengers #282 and was adapted by Roger Stern and John Buscema.
The Pantheon version of Prometheus first appeared in Incredible Hulk #368 and was created by Peter David.


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Prometheus (Olympian) ===
Prometheus is one of the Titans of Greek Mythology and the son of Iapetus. His siblings included Atlas, Menoetius, and Epimetheus. When their uncle Cronus' rule was challenged by Zeus, Prometheus and Epimetheus sided with the Olympians while Atlas and Menoetius sided with Cronus. With the help of Prometheus and Epimetheus, the Olympians defeated the Titans. Prometheus and Epimetheus took an interest in mankind and became the joint rulers in Phthia. Prometheus has taken in interest in the humans and later learned various skills from Athena that started to get Zeus concerned. When Prometheus took fire from the Gods and taught the humans how to cook, Zeus had Kratos and Bia bind Prometheus to a pillar in the Caucasian Mountains using chains that were forged by Hephaestus. Zeus also had an eagle peck out Prometheus' liver which grew back every night. Zeus did offer to shorten his life of being chained to a pillar if he would give him the vision of the prophecy that would one day dethrone Zeus. Seven generations later, Hercules came across Prometheus during his 12 Labours when on his way to the Amazons. Hercules killed the eagle and then freed Prometheus. Zeus was at first against this, but decided to end Prometheus' punishment. Prometheus foresaw this event and vows to repay Hercules one day.In the modern era, Hercules was badly injured in a fight with Baron Helmut Zemo's Masters of Evil where Black Mamba drugged Hercules causing him to foolishly charge into battle. When Zeus (who was unaware that the Masters of Evil were responsible for Hercules ending up in a coma) had Neptune abduct Namor and bring him to the Underworld, Prometheus managed to heal Namor after he escaped Cerberus and barely made it across the Phlegethon River. He then directed Namor to where the other Avengers were being held which happened to be the Garrison of the Accursed at Fortress Tartarus. After the Avengers made their way to Mount Olympus, Prometheus spoke to them while they were in the woods. When Zeus caught up to the Avengers while Doctor Druid was healing Hercules' brain, Prometheus then declares that the battle between man and gods has begun. While Zeus continues his fight with the Avengers, Hera sided with Prometheus and Hermes. Prometheus healed Captain America and Doctor Druid before proceeding to try his luck into healing Hercules where Doctor Druid and Apollo had failed. Under the advice of Hermes, Prometheus called upon Gaea's help to do so while Thor and Captain Marvel continued their fight with Zeus. When Captain Marvel attempted to attack Zeus, the blinding light she gave off distracted Prometheus which caused Hercules to be revived in a state of paranoia where he attacked Prometheus. Luckily for Prometheus, Doctor Druid managed to fully heal Hercules' mind. After Zeus' attack was halted, Prometheus arrived showing signs of aging with some of his hair turning white. Prometheus then attended a reception on Mount Olympus. Before teleporting the Avengers away, Prometheus warned the Avengers that there will be many challenges to come to them and that mankind will be sorely tested on one of them.


=== Prometheus (Pantheon) ===
Prometheus is a member of the super hero family the Pantheon. The Pantheon is led by Agamemnon, the father of all its super-powered members. Prometheus was born with a deformed face that looks horribly burned. Prometheus drives a very high tech vehicle created by the Pantheon engineers called the Argo. Prometheus debuted trying to kidnap Bruce Banner (the Hulk's alter-ego).He later assists the Hulk by transporting his wife, Betty Banner. He expects her to react badly to his burnt face, but instead she insults his smoking habit.Prometheus is an excellent tracker even over interstellar distances. He uses this as part of a mission to help fellow Pantheon member Atalanta. While rescuing her, they learn that Agamemnon had gained his resources by selling out his future descendants.Because of this Agamemnon is captured and put on trial. Having been revealed to be mad, he unleashes his 'Endless Knights', cyborgs made of his dead children. During the battle, the Hulk entrusts Prometheus with the safety of Betty.


== Powers and abilities ==
The Olympian version of Prometheus has super-strength, a healing factor, and precognition.
The Pantheon Prometheus has expert tracking skills. Like the other Pantheon members, Prometheus possesses a healing factor.


== References ==


== External links ==
Prometheus (Olympian) at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
Prometheus (Pantheon) at Marvel Wiki