
Quasimodo is a supervillain, a computer (or "Quasi-Motivational Destruct Organ") created and abandoned by the Mad Thinker. The character was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby and first appeared in Fantastic Four Annual #4 (Nov 1966). The Silver Surfer finds the computer and, feeling pity for his desire to be human, grants him a partly organic, semi-humanoid cyborg body. Quasimodo becomes enraged by his feelings of inferiority compared to the Silver Surfer's more perfect body, battles him, and is rendered immobile by the Surfer. Eventually regaining his mobility, Quasimodo comes into conflict with Captain Marvel, the Beast, Spider-Man and Hawkeye, the Fantastic Four, the Galadorian Spaceknight Rom, and finally the Vision, who expels the villain's consciousness into space.Returning to Earth, Quasimodo sets up shop at a base in Cuba during the "Dark Reign" storyline, where S.H.I.E.L.D. obtains him for Norman Osborn. He enters Osborn's service as an analyst, compiling dossiers on numerous superhumans where he lists each one depending on if they are a threat, should be locked up, or be good allies with Norman. Quasimodo even recommended leading a group if he was to go after Mad Thinker.Quasimodo appears as a member of the A.I. Army. He and H.E.R.B.I.E. raid a Futura Motors testing site and use an un-hibitor to free the robotic crash test dummies. They are attacked by Iron Man whose attack destroys the un-hibitor. Quasimodo, H.E.R.B.I.E, and the robot test dummies flee the area. After Ghost in the Machine sends a message to Mark One about Arno Stark's project that involves putting an end to the A.I. rebellion, Quasimodo and Machinesmith state they need to stay off the Internet. Mark-One claims that they will tweak the transmission and go on the Heist of the Century by raiding Bain Tower. Quasimodo is zapped by Iron Man as he shuts down in Mark One's arms as he makes Mark One promise that the A.I. Army will win their campaign.


=== Other versions of Quasimodo ===
Quasimodo appears in the tie-in comic to The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes.


