
Adriana "Ana" Soria (otherwise known as the Queen) is a supervillainess. Created by Paul Jenkins and Michael Ryan, she first appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man Vol. 2 #15 (August 2004). The result of an American military experiment from World War II, she has the mysterious ability to control minions with powerful pheromones to which she used when she returned to seek revenge on the US government for abandoning her, resulting in confrontations with Peter Parker/Spider-Man in stopping her from destroying all human life in New York City with a biological bomb. The character next appears as the supervillainess behind the "Spider-Island" storyline. She is the female benefactor to the Jackal's Man-Spider virus to people obtaining Spider abilities while using Tarantula and the Spider King as enforcers. Their plan results New York's several hundred citizens having manifested Spider abilities to which the Avengers defend New York City, despite Anti-Venom's abilities curing various Spider-powered individuals, and Carlie Cooper and Peter investigating this event's cause. Meanwhile, Soria has the Jackal use the Spider King as the Man-Spider virus carrier. Mister Fantastic's vaccine for Spider-powered individuals can keep people from gaining abilities but does not cure anyone who already have the abilities while nearly everyone in New York slowly mutate into Man-Spiders, to which Soria controls the Man-Spiders. As Max Modell's Horizon Labs develop a serum via Anti-Venom to kill/reverse the Man-Spider mutations, Soria sends Tarantula to poison the serum, eventually resulting in her enforcer being cured of the Jackal's mutation. Meanwhile, the Spider King is defeated and captured by Agent Venom but nearly kills Flash Thompson before the Venom symbiote's canine host fights off the Spider King which allowed Agent Venom to fight back before discovering that the Man-Spider's original identity Steve Rogers. Unknown to Soria and the Jackal, Agent Venom impersonates the Spider King to learn more about the Man-Spider chaos, while Horizon Labs' cure is tested on the Spider King for his human form's restoration. Deprived of her two male enforcers, Soria spitefully kills the Jackal (later revealed to be another clone). Her enhanced powers evolves herself into the Spider Queen (an enormous Man-Spider) when confronted by Captain America and Agent Venom followed by Spider-Man and Mary Jane Watson and then New York's whole heroic community. Spider-Man uses Doctor Octopus's Octobots to carry the cure to reverse New York's mutation at once which made Soria lose most of her powers. Kaine Parker then uses the "Big Time" Spider-Armor to deflect her own sonic scream to slay Soria.


=== Queen in other media ===
The Queen (Adriana Soria) is featured as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.
A loose adaptation of the Queen appears in Ultimate Spider-Man Vs. the Sinister Six called the Carnage Queen, voiced by Tara Strong. She's an amalgamation of the Spider Queen with Mary Jane Watson as the host. She has a central role in "The Symbiote Saga" [Part 3], serving as a symbiote hive's leader after assimilating the Anti-Venom symbiote's abilities and manipulated by Morbius the Living Vampire and Crossbones. Spider-Man, Agent Venom and the Patrioteer encounter and combat the villains before Spider-Man destroys her mind-control device, causing the Carnage Queen to attack her so-called master while Crossbones escapes. The three heroes reveal their respective secret identities, inspiring her host's strength to break free as the Carnage Queen (though "Spider-Slayers" revealed she retained these abilities).
The Spider King alias is seen in Marvel's Spider-Man used by Norman Osborn (voiced by Josh Keaton) during the "Spider-Island" adaptation while Flash Thompson is briefly seen as a Man-Spider; both individuals are cured separately by Harry Osborn.


