
Quicksand is a fictional supervillain, created by Tom DeFalco and Ron Frenz, who first appeared in Thor 392.
A woman of Vietnamese descent, Quicksand was once a scientist working at a nuclear facility. An accident transforms her body into a sand-like substance (similar to Sandman). Pretty and selfish, she has a hard time adjusting to her transformation. She calls herself Quicksand and attacks the nuclear reactor in a rage, hoping to get revenge for the accident and shut it down. Thor confronts her and prevents disaster by using his hammer to transport the entire facility to another dimension, and Quicksand escapes. She is later contacted by Mongoose on behalf of Count Tagar, who wants a cell sample from Thor to create a race of gods. She initially refuses, but is persuaded when Mongoose demonstrates a device which can temporarily transform her back into human form. She barely holds her own in battle, and escapes again once the sample is collected.Since then, Quicksand has apparently resigned herself to her transformation, even reveling in the power and profit she has enjoyed as a professional super-criminal. She serves for a time with Superia's Femizons, which are later shut down by Captain America and Paladin. Later, Quicksand somehow comes to the attention of the rogue Egyptian god Seth, who sends her, Bison, and Mongoose to steal a sample of Inferno-42 from S.H.I.E.L.D. In the course of this mission, they battle Thunderstrike, S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Alex DePaul, and hero-for-hire Luke Cage. During the battle, a conscience-stricken Bison turns on his partners, defeating Quicksand and saving the life of DePaul, who lets Bison go free in gratitude.At some point, she is invited to join the Crimson Cowl's Masters of Evil. She accepts, hoping to get rich through their global weather control scheme. The team is defeated and apprehended by the Thunderbolts, and Quicksand is among those remanded to custody.During the Civil War storyline, Quicksand is once again seen fighting the Thunderbolts, this time in Denver, Colorado, and is once again defeated. When their leader, Baron Zemo, is contacted by Iron Man to hunt down villains so Stark can recruit them into his own team, Quicksand is one of them. After a period of dream manipulation, she becomes part of Thunderbolts Team B and helps arrest the U-Foes in Portland. Assisting her are Thunderbolts veterans Joystick, Blizzard and Fixer.During the Dark Reign storyline, Quicksand is revealed as a member of the Initiative's new team for the state of Delaware, the Women Warriors. The team later takes part in the assault on Asgard.She is later sent to the Raft. When Juggernaut destroys the prison she escapes, but is contained by Justice and handed over to the authorities. Later, she and other super-criminals are sent to a prison not fit to contain them. A riot erupts, and Quicksand is key to the brawl until she is defeated by Rogue and Mimic.Quicksand’s strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes, and durability have all been enhanced as a result of exposure to atomic radiation. Her altered body provides her with protection from physical and energy attacks. She has the ability to transform into a malleable sand-like substance which can be hardened, dispersed, or shaped according to her will. She can increase her size and mass to an unknown extent when in sand-form, and can manipulate it for various effects. She has used this ability to form hammers, elongate parts of her body, and fire sandblasts. Although Quicksand's body is capable of transforming to human form, she does not appear to be able to initiate this change without artificial assistance.


