


=== Warpie Quill ===
This Quill first appeared in Captain Britain, vol. 2 #7 and was created by Jamie Delano and Alan Davis. He is one of the Warpies, a group of superhumans created by the Jaspers' Warp. The group was taken in by the British government organization R.C.X.. Quill and several other Warpies are trained for combat, forming the Cherubim. They attack Captain Britain, but are later taken in by him and his sister Elizabeth Braddock. The Warpies are later abducted by the new R.C.X. and again came into conflict with Captain Britain, now part of Excalibur. The Warpies were all slowly turning into humans, but the new R.C.X. had told them that they were dying. Excalibur uncovers the truth and tells the Warpies. They also free the original leaders of the R.C.X. and leave the Warpies in their care.The Warpies are again abducted shortly afterwards by Black Air, another government organisation, who experiments on the group in an attempt to keep them superhuman. Their experiments succeeded, but the Warpies are then captured by Mastermind. Under his leadership, the group attacks and destroys most of the Captain Britain Corps. Captain Britain defeats them and turns them into normal humans.When powered, Quill's body is covered in barbs, and he has razor-sharp claws.


=== Max Jordan ===
Quill (Max Jordan), a student at the  Xavier Institute, first appeared in New X-Men: Academy X #1 and was created by Nunzio DeFilippis and Christina Weir. When the students were each assigned to squads, Quill was assigned to Cyclops's. Quill is voted class clown by the students of the Institute.He is caught trying to steal test answers from the headmaster’s office. Kitty Pryde arranges for him and his accomplices to be mentored by Gambit, but instead of making them see the error of their ways, Gambit teaches them proper theft techniques.He is killed during William Stryker's attack on the Xavier Institute in the wake of M-Day. His body is seen in a telepathic image Emma Frost used to torment Carol Danvers about her persistence with the Registration Act.Max is covered in porcupine-like quills that he can shoot from his body or use as a shield.


=== Other versions of Quill ===
In the "House of M" storyline, Max is a SHIELD Hellions squad student.


=== Quill in other media ===
A character called "Kid Omega" (portrayed by Ken Leung) appears in X-Men: The Last Stand, but is modeled after Quill rather than Quentin Quire. The writer/director commentary on the home release clarified that the credits were mistaken and referred to the character as "Quill". Quill first appears as a member of The Omegas, then later joins Magneto's Brotherhood of Evil Mutants with Callisto, Arclight, and Psylocke. During the attack on Alcatraz, Quill kills Dr. Kavita Rao and almost kills Dr. Worthington whose son, Warren Worthington III / Angel, comes to the rescue and protects. Quill, Psylocke and Arclight are later killed by Jean Grey's Phoenix Force powers.
In a bonus feature on the home release for X-Men: Apocalypse, Quill is featured in a voicemail message for Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters.


