Ravage (Marvel Comics)

Ravage (Doctor Geoffrey Crawford) is a fictional character in Marvel Comics. He is also one of the Hulk's enemies.


== Fictional character biography ==
Dr. Geoffrey Crawford was a physics professor at Desert State University who took undergraduate Bruce Banner under his wing and became his mentor. Years later, Banner went to his teacher for aid in finding a cure for the Hulk. At this time Crawford was a sick man, but he was nevertheless able to create a machine that could be used to filter the gamma radiation from Bruce's body. Crawford also saw this as a way to cure himself. By obtaining some of the Hulk's DNA, he knew he would be able to use the Hulk's recuperative powers on himself. First, Crawford reconfigured his own DNA so that it was a match with Banner's. This turned him into a stronger beast than the Hulk: the monster called Ravage.Ravage is stronger than the Hulk and is slightly larger. The key element which makes Ravage such a dangerous enemy is that he still has Dr. Crawford's mind and a lust for power. Just after his first transformation, Ravage attacks Hulk, but he soon returns to being Crawford at sunrise, much like Banner initially transformed into the Hulk at sunset and returned to being Banner at sunrise. Crawford turns Banner over to General Ross for fear of being stopped from becoming Ravage again.Crawford adjusts his machine so that it will change him into Ravage permanently. He then attacks the university as Ravage and terrorizes those who had pitied him as Dr. Crawford. Ravage is only stopped when the Hulk and General Ross formed an unlikely alliance that allows the army to trap the villain in a state of suspended animation.


== Powers and abilities ==
Ravage possesses superhuman strength and durability while maintaining Crawford's intellect and hunger for power. He is bigger and slightly stronger than the Hulk, with the ability to leap great distances, and Ravage also acquired the amazing healing and regenerative powers as well as immunity to all known diseases from Banner.


== Other versions ==


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
In the Ultimate Marvel universe, although Ravage/Dr. Geoffrey Crawford has never appeared, there are some links of him in other Hulk related characters. The character of Tyrone Cash, a vicious mobster with Hulk abilities is portrayed as a former mentor of Bruce Banner, and once was a frail scientist, Dr. Leonard Williams with MS, (much like Crawford) and the Ultimate Dr. Samuel Sterns is a bitter, old, wheelchair-using man who became a Hulk-like monster.


== In other media ==


=== Video games ===
Dr. Geoffrey Crawford/Ravage appears in the 2003 video game adaptation of the 2003 Hulk feature film, voiced by Paul Dobson. Geoffrey Crawford initially appears as Bruce Banner's old mentor. In the game, he finds a cure for the Hulk by using the gamma orb, which draws out the gamma energy that created the Hulk. Then when he discovers the military plans to use it to defeat the Hulk. Crawford tells Banner to get to his lab before the military does. This version of Crawford is similar to the original comic book version in that he needs to use a wheelchair for mobility, but he attempts to regain his health to walk again. However, after Bruce Banner arrives in the lab, it is revealed that Crawford is just using him to get gamma radiation for himself, using it to become Ravage. Over the course of the game, it is revealed that Crawford is working with the Leader, who seeks to use the gamma energy from the orb to create an army of gamma warriors. During his boss fight, Ravage battles the Hulk alone at first until he summons two armed gamma creatures to assist him. After being defeated by the Hulk, he reverts to his human form and apologizes for his actions, realizing that his treachery has given the Leader all he needs to create an army. At the end of the game, Crawford is seen apparently trying to get more gamma radiation to become Ravage again, by building a copy of the gamma orb after the original was destroyed by the Hulk. However, it doesn't work and fails on him.
Ravage appears as an unlockable playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.


== References ==


== External links ==
Ravage at Marvel.com