
Redeemer is codename used by two minor characters in Marvel Comics. Both are acquaintances of the Hulk. 


=== Craig Saunders ===
Craig Saunders Jr., created by John Byrne, first appeared in Incredible Hulk #317 (March 1986). Fascinated by explosives every since childhood, he specialized in explosive ordinance disposal until he was too late with a mother and daughter killed by the bomb blast to which his military reputation had been permanently damaged as a result of bad press. Saunders is recruited into the Hulkbusters by Bruce Banner, vowing to redeem himself of his failings by doggedly hunting the Hulk and gaining a friendship with fellow teammate Sam LaRoquette. After Bruce Banner re-merged with the Hulk due to separation causing cellular degeneration, Saunders hunted Rick Jones. The Hulkbusters are recruited by S.H.I.E.L.D. as an advisor alongside LaRoquette but were manipulated by the Leader into being a brainwashed pawn with himself and LaRoquette as Redeemer and Rock respectively. He is killed when the Hulk threw him on rock spikes.


=== Reginald Fortean ===
Reginald Fortean, created by Jeff Parker and Gabriel Hardman, first appeared in Hulk Vol. 2 30.1 (May 2011). A US Air Force General and Thunderbolt Ross's protégé, he seeks revenge on the Red Hulk (unaware that Red Hulk and Ross are one person) by using his own Redeemer armor. During one of these outings, he briefly fought Omegex.Reginald Fortean has since taken command of the anti-Hulk "Shadow Base" black ops as part of the U.S. Hulk Operations. He uses the organization to find a way to weaponize the gamma radiation. Reginald and Dr. Charlene McGowan later graft the tissue samples of Abomination to Rick Jones' corpse as part of a gamma experiment that revives him as an Abomination/A-Bomb-like creature with two faces and many finger-like structures surrounding his face that Dr. Charlene McGowan calls Subject B. After killing a depowered Walter Langkowski, Reginald accidentally fused himself with Rick Jones's Subject B husk, turning himself into the new Subject B. Hulk and Subject B ended up killing themselves and were transported to the Below-Place. After talking to Doc Samson, Banner as Grey Hulk killed Reginald.


