Rhino (character)

Rhino (Aleksei Sytsevich; English: AH-LEK-SEE SET-SEH-VICH; Russian: Алексей Сицевич) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer Stan Lee and artist John Romita Sr., and first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #41 (Oct 1966). A thug who gained an artificial skin covering that grants him superhuman strength and rebelled against the scientists who gave him these new abilities, Rhino has been featured as one of Spider-Man's most enduring enemies, and is part of the collective of adversaries that make up his rogues' gallery. He has also come into conflict with the Hulk.
Debuting in the Silver Age of Comic Books, Rhino has been featured in other Marvel-endorsed products, including animated television series, video games, and merchandise such as action figures and trading cards. A version of Rhino using powered battle armor, portrayed by Paul Giamatti, appeared in the 2014 film The Amazing Spider-Man 2.


== Publication history ==
Described by writer Mike Conroy as "famously one of Spider-Man's dimmest villains", the character debuted in The Amazing Spider-Man #41–43 (Oct.–Dec. 1966) as a thug for hire working for an Eastern Bloc country. He volunteers to participate in an experiment that bonds a super strong polymer to his skin and also augments his strength and speed. Rhino returned in Hulk, vol. 2, #104 (June 1968), and although he apparently dies at the end of the story, the character was revived in Hulk #124 (Feb 1970), becoming a perennial opponent for both Spider-Man and the Hulk.
The character achieved significant exposure in the 1980s and 1990s, appearing in both a solo capacity and as a villain for hire in over a dozen titles. Significant appearances included starring in the limited series Deadly Foes of Spider-Man #1–4 (May–Aug. 1991); the "Flowers for Rhino" storyline in Spider-Man's Tangled Web # 5–6 (Oct.–Nov. 2001), which is told from the character's perspective; and Punisher War Journal vol. 2, #13–15 (Jan.–Mar. 2008), in which Rhino begins to rethink his lifestyle.


== Fictional character biography ==
Aleksei Sytsevich was a thug who worked for Eastern Bloc scientists. The scientists subjected him to a process that gave him an artificial skin covering, which granted him superhuman strength. After being empowered, Aleksei Sytsevich rebels against the agents who gave him his powers and destroys their laboratory.  He is subsequently hired to kidnap Colonel John Jameson in order to obtain extraterrestrial spores to which Jameson has been exposed during a space mission. Jameson is rescued and Rhino defeated by the superhero Spider-Man. Rhino is imprisoned and kept there with sedation but soon breaks out and continues to try to kidnap Jameson. Spider-Man uses a web imbued with a chemical developed by Curt Connors to melt off his Rhino hide and then knocks him unconscious.After serving his entire prison term, Rhino is approached by the same scientists, who bombard him with gamma radiation (exposure to which granted the character The Incredible Hulk his super-powers) to increase the Rhino's strength. The scientists also equip him with a more durable, acid-proof suit that "complements" the gamma ray procedure, granting the Rhino even more strength while he wears it. Rhino agrees to find and kidnap Bruce Banner (the Hulk's alter-ego) for his knowledge of gamma radiation; the Rhino then trains to fight the Hulk. However, the Rhino finds himself hopelessly overpowered in the ensuing battle, as the Hulk shrugs off his strongest blows, pummels him to the brink of death, and leaves him in a coma.The character is brought out of his coma by the Leader months later. The Leader plans to interrupt Banner's wedding to Betty Ross using a ray to transform him into the Hulk and make him kill Ross; he revived Rhino to protect him from the Hulk's inevitable desire for revenge. However, Rhino betrays the Leader by attacking Banner the moment he transforms. Rhino is still unable to harm the seemingly invulnerable Hulk, and he turns on the Leader after the Leader accidentally shoots him. Rhino is caught in the explosion of the Leader's ship and again left in a coma. Leader, who was paralyzed after a previous encounter with Hulk, finds and takes mental control of the still-comatose body of Rhino and attacks Hulk. The battle eventually leads to an alien world, where Leader abandons control of Rhino and flees. Bruce and an unconscious-but-now-recovered Rhino travel back to Earth via a rocket.Rhino reappears with Abomination, and the pair activate a gamma bomb at the Hulkbuster base in an attempt to destroy Hulk. Jim Wilson deactivates the bomb, and Hulk tricks the villains during combat, forcing them to collide and knock each other unconscious. Rhino reappears as a member of the supervillain team, the Emissaries of Evil (consisting also of Egghead, Solarr and the Cobalt Man), in search of a rare jewel. Opposed by superhero team, the Defenders, Rhino and Solarr initially hold their own until defeated by Doctor Strange, who has been possessed by the jewel and become the Red Rajah. While in hiding, Rhino is found and outwitted by scientist Doc Samson and is eventually defeated.Rhino battles Doc Samson and Spider-Man. Rhino teams up with Moonstone; Blackout and Electro in an unsuccessful attempt to escape the research complex Project: Pegasus. Rhino also battles Fantastic Four member, the Thing, during an attempt to remove his body suit.Rhino joins the criminal group the Sinister Syndicate to battle Spider-Man. Rhino also battles Iron Man in the city of Los Angeles. Rhino and accomplice Blacklash, in the employ of criminal mastermind Justin Hammer, also hunt and capture a fellow villain Scorpion, who has absconded with advanced weaponry.Rhino teams with other villains in two unsuccessful attempts to kill Spider-Man. Rhino receives an intelligence boost via surgery and becomes a genius, eventually undergoing surgery again to reverse the process when life becomes dull.Rhino is defeated by a diminutive Deadpool (courtesy of the Pym Particles); Rhino appears during the Civil War storyline where he assists the Chameleon in attacking Spider-Man.When Rhino robs a bank and a security guard is accidentally killed, he is humiliated by the Punisher and saved by Spider-Man before being killed. Rhino is then captured by Alyosha Kravinoff (the son of Kraven the Hunter). Kravinoff, who is collecting a zoo of animal-themed superhumans, is defeated by Punisher, with a despondent Rhino and other villains being freed. Feeling remorse from the accidental killing, Rhino sends a letter and money to the security guard's widow. Rhino decides to make amends and repay the Punisher for the previous rescue by aiding him on a case. At the conclusion of the story, Rhino is allowed to leave and is told to "be good", eventually returning to aid the vigilante. Rhino later persuades Punisher to not kill Michael Watts, the third Stilt-Man.During The Gauntlet storyline, Rhino decides to give up his life of crime entirely. He surrenders to the police and pleads guilty to all charges against him. S.H.I.E.L.D. removes his Rhino costume, and he is sentenced to 25 years in Ryker's Island. The Russian Mafia and other criminal gangs try to recruit him, but he denies them, even going so far as to completely avoid a breakout at one point. For his good behavior and cooperation, he is released early on parole. Upon release, he is met by Doctor Tramma, who wants to re-invent Rhino. Sytsevich declines Doctor Tramma's offer and tries to begin a new life, dating (and eventually marrying) a waitress and residing in a small apartment in Yonkers. Doctor Tramma eventually uses someone else to create a new and improved Rhino. Sytsevich feels he needs to face and kill the new Rhino to get rid of him, but Spider-Man convinces him to promise otherwise and helps Sytsevich keep his new life by defeating the new Rhino. The new Rhino attacks Sytsevich at one of J. Jonah Jameson's press meetings. Feeling he could not break his promise to Spider-Man, Sytsevich lies to the new Rhino, telling him he will agree to fight him in his suit, but he instead goes into hiding with his wife Oksana. Before they arrive at their safehouse, the new Rhino attacks again, and Oksana dies as a result. Sytsevich redons his old Rhino suit and attacks the new Rhino. With one hit, Sytsevich completely destroys the new Rhino's suit. Spider-Man begs Sytsevich to stop, but the grief-stricken Rhino disregards him and kills the new Rhino.Rhino is invited by Doctor Octopus to join his supervillain team where he becomes involved in securing some specific items for him. He shows up after Spider-Man makes Freak collide with Vulture. Spider-Man talks him down from a fight. Rhino is later seen as a member of Doctor Octopus' Sinister Six.During the Ends of the Earth storyline, Rhino is among the Sinister Six when Spider-Man and the Avengers engage them on the Mediterranean coasts. Rhino defeats Thor after Thor sends Electro into the atmosphere. Rhino is seen guarding one of Doctor Octopus' facilities in Korea. He fights Spider-Man, Black Widow and Silver Sable and is defeated by Spider-Man's electrical webbing. Rhino reveals he wanted to watch the world burn, stating that the loss of his wife had changed him, and that he is prepared to die. When Doctor Octopus self-destructs his own lair, Rhino pins Silver Sable to the floor in a flooding corridor, telling Spider-Man he will remain there, taking Silver Sable with him to death. Knowing Spider-Man will blame himself for his fellow hero's death, Rhino sees it as an opportunity for revenge. Rhino and Silver Sable are apparently drowned, despite Spider-Man's defeating Doctor Octopus.While in Doctor Octopus' dying body, Spider-Man meets him and Oksana in the afterlife during a post-mortem experience.As part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel event as part of the lead-up to the Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy storyline, Rhino resurfaces months later having survived his apparent demise. He has remained in hiding in Tahuexco, Guatemala. A mysterious red-suited man approaches Aleksei and persuades him to do the red-suited man's bidding. Although Rhino was not up to it at first, he takes up the red-suited man's offer when he has a somehow-revived Oksana by his side. The red-suited man later has Rhino spring Lizard and a depowered Electro from Andry Corrections Facility. It is revealed that the revived Oksana is a clone that red-suited man had gathered to grow clones with false memories that span all the way to their deaths. Rhino and the Francine Frye version of Electro assist New U Technologies' security force into stopping Spider-Man only to be defeated. When Jackal's police contact Chief Anderson tells him about where the clone of Gwen Stacy is, Jackal sends Rhino and Electro to Horizon University. When they retrieve the Gwen Stacy clone, she tells them to bring Kaine due to his encounter with the Carrion Virus might help in Jackal's research. Anna Marie Marconi persuades them to bring her along too since she also studied Kaine and the drug. Both villains agree to the terms. When Doctor Octopus pulls a switch which activates the Carrion Virus in all of the clones and causes them to start rapidly decaying, including Oksana. Rhino was devastated when Oksana turned to dust. Rhino goes on a rampage after losing Oksana in New U Technologies, but Spider-Man manages to calm him down by convincing him to move forward with his life for Oksana's sake. The two of them agree to see each other once in a while to help the other with their pain.In a prelude to the "Hunted" storyline, Rhino is among the animal-themed characters captured by Taskmaster and Black Ant on Kraven the Hunter's behalf. He is among those who Arcade publicly reveals as the Savage Six.


== Powers and abilities ==
Mutagenic chemical and radiation treatments, including gamma ray bombardment, provides Rhino with superhuman strength, heightened levels of speed and stamina and a high degree of durability. Rhino's superhuman speed allows him to run and/or exercise at high velocities, especially over short distances. He frequently "charges" his opponents in this manner, enabling him to cause great harm to most enemies and the surrounding area. Rhino is notorious, however, for his lack of agility and slow reaction time. This makes it nearly impossible for him to change direction when running at such high speeds and causes him to miss his target and collide with the wrong object.
Rhino's enhanced musculature is much more efficient than that of a normal human and generates considerably less fatigue toxins during physical activity. At his peak, he can exert himself physically for up to 24 hours before the build up of fatigue toxins in his blood starts to impair him.Rhino has some experience in hand-to-hand combat, though he is generally much more of a brawler. Even so, his extreme levels of strength, stamina and resistance to injury make him a formidable opponent regardless of a foe's superior fighting skills.Rhino possesses a thick polymer mat suit that resembles the physique of a rhinoceros and covers his entire body except for his face. The suit is highly resistant to damage and extreme temperatures, and it is also equipped with two horns, designed to mimic the general shape and function of actual rhinoceros horns, capable of penetrating two-inch plate steel. His first suit, more crude in overall design, was originally bonded to his skin, and he was unable to remove it. This suit was eventually destroyed and a second, removable suit, more form-fitting in its design, was created by Justin Hammer. This suit was given to Rhino after he underwent additional gamma ray treatments that further heightened his powers. The new suit was also designed to enhance some of his powers, using gamma ray treatments. Without the suit, Rhino still possesses great superhuman strength and is highly resistant to conventional physical injury, such as most high-caliber bullets, extreme temperatures and impact forces. While wearing the suit, his strength is slightly increased, while his durability is enhanced to a much more significant degree. The suit also allows him to withstand high-caliber bullets, exposure to temperature extremes of cold and heat without the suit cracking or melting or his own bodily tissues suffering damage, falls from great heights, light anti-tank weaponry, explosive concussions and potent acids without sustaining injury.


== Other characters named Rhino ==


=== Doctor Tramma's Rhino ===
When Aleksei Sytsevich declines Doctor Tramma's offer to be upgraded, Doctor Tramma finds another subject and equips him with a high-tech rhino suit that was supposed to be given to Aleksei Sytsevich. The second Rhino comes after Aleksei, feeling that he had to destroy the original Rhino if he was going to ascend. Spider-Man defeats the second Rhino who then escapes.While lifting a makeshift dumbbell made out of a pole and two trucks, the second Rhino is called up by a mysterious person telling him where he can find Aleksei. Rhino attacks Aleksei at one of J. Jonah Jameson's press meetings. Aleksei lies to the second Rhino, agreeing to fight him in his suit but instead going into hiding with Oksana. However, before they arrive at their safehouse, the second Rhino attacks again and Oksana dies as a result. Aleksei dons his old Rhino suit, totals the new Rhino's suit as his suit was stronger, and kills the unnamed wearer.


== Other versions ==


=== Age of Apocalypse ===
In the alternate reality seen in the Age of Apocalypse storyline, Rhino was one of Death's soldiers on the Moon at Apocalypse's recovery base the Ship. Death captured superhumans and brought them to the Ship and used the Terrigen Mist to turn them into warped powerful monsters for him to control. Rhino was one of the super humans that were captured. He joined Death and other of his henchmen and fought Magneto and the X-Men on the moon. He ends up fighting Rogue but is defeated easily by one punch.


=== Earth-Charnel ===
Rhino was seen as a member of the Avengers who travelled through time to stop Charnel, an entity that had been ravaging his future-Earth for decades. He had been partnered with She-Hulk for twenty years. He was killed in action.


=== JLA/Avengers ===
Rhino is among the villains enthralled by Krona in the last issue to defend his stronghold. He is shown defeating Triathlon.


=== House of M ===
In the alternate reality seen in the House of M storyline, Rhino is the bodyguard of Peter Parker. When Parker sends Rhino to question Crusher Hogan, wrestling under the alias "Green Goblin", Rhino injures Hogan, hospitalizing him. Now in hiding from the authorities, Rhino is approached by the Green Goblin looking for aid in defeating Parker. Rhino betrays the Green Goblin enlisting his friends Electro, Ox and Vulture to attack the Green Goblin, unmasking him to reveal Peter Parker.


=== Marvel Zombies ===
Rhino was among the zombified villains that attempted to devour Galactus and joined the undead Sinister Six. When the other zombies were done eating Galactus, Zombie Hulk and Zombie Spider-Man tore off Rhino's head and body and both each eating it, also both stating that it did not taste good.


=== MC2 ===
Rhino appeared within the MC2 Universe in the pages of Mr. and Mrs. Spider-Man. Whilst visiting the hospital with his sick aunt, Rhino briefly loses his temper as he is told to fill in his forms in order for his aunt to receive her meds, before calming down. Waiting in line, he once again comes face to face with Peter Parker, who is with his own family. Remembering that he once threatened Peter under the orders of Harry Osborn, Rhino assures Peter what he did was simply business, and the two call a truce. They spend the remainder of Peter's visit exchanging stories of their lifestyle choices, and part with a better understanding of each other.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
The Ultimate Marvel version of Rhino is Alex O'Hirn, a scientist who uses a suit of armor known as R.H.I.N.O. (Robotism Heuristic Intelligence Navigable Operative) that he stole from the U.S. Military. Using the R.H.I.N.O. armor's incredible strength, he robbed a Manhattan bank, charging the vault head-first, destroying it. He then rampaged through a busy street to make his escape, destroying anything in his path, including police cars, with ease. The original Spider-Man tries to escape school in order to confront him but is stopped by various incidents. Iron Man arrives, stops the R.H.I.N.O. assault and captures him by the time Spider-Man catches up. R.H.I.N.O. was then taken into military custody. R.H.I.N.O. was later seen being soundly defeated by Spider-Man. During the "Divided We Fall" storyline, R.H.I.N.O. faces off against Captain America and the U.S. Army. The new Spider-Man uses his venom blasts to create a shortcut into the R.H.I.N.O. armor and defeat him.


=== Spider-Verse ===
In the Spider-Verse storyline, the Earth-001 version of Rhino appears as a member of Verna's Hounds. He accompanied Verna and the Earth-001 version of Scorpion to Earth-21205 to hunt the Hobgoblin (who was the identity of this world's Peter Parker). Rhino, Verna, and Scorpion were stopped by the Spider-Woman of Earth-65. He later helps Verna and the Earth-001 versions of Hammerhead and Ox attack the Spider-Totems on Earth-8847. He is killed by Superior Spider-Man, Assassin Spider-Man, and Spider Punk.


=== Marvel Mangaverse ===
Rhino was part of the Kishi Kuri clan. Think was present when Venom usurped Kingpin. Rhino was seen battling the Shadow Clan.


=== Spider-Gwen ===
On Earth-65, Aleksei Sytsevich is a mercenary who was hired by Kingpin and Matt Murdock to kill George Stacy. Though he doesn't appear as Rhino, Aleksei is depicted as large, having gray skin, and sporting blue hair. He was stopped by Spider-Woman. Officer Frank Castle later interrogated him on who ordered the hit on George Stacy. Castle beats the information out of Aleksei that Kingpin was the one who ordered the hit.


=== Old Man Logan ===
In Old Man Logan's future where the villains rose to power, Rhino left Manhattan and formed the Rhino Gang where they managed to conquer Arizona and New Mexico while killing anyone that opposes them in the way. When it comes to a Cheyenne reservation in South Dakota, Rhino and the Rhino Gang met resistance in the form of Forge and his high-tech defenses that annihilated the Rhino Gang. While riding on an exo-skeleton, Forge managed to kill Rhino by beating him to death.


=== Amazing Spider-Man: Renew Your Vows ===
During the "Secret Wars" storyline in the pages of Amazing Spider-Man: Renew Your Vows, Rhino works as an enforcer of Regent where he, Boomerang, and Shocker beat up Demolition Man for protesting against Regent's rules. Regent later recruits Boomerang, Beetle, and Rhino to fill in the membership gaps in the Sinister Six following the deaths of Doctor Octopus and Hobgoblin and Vulture being incapacitated. He and the Sinister Six attack S.H.I.E.L.D.'s secret base after Regent probed Sandman's mind.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Rhino made two appearances in season one of the 1967 Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Ed McNamara. In the episode "Horn of the Rhino", he steals military equipment in an attempt to make an explosive weapon, framing Spider-Man for the theft in the process. The hero later deduces that Rhino is hiding in a zoo's rhinoceros enclosure and defeats him. In the episode "The Golden Rhino", Rhino steals a shipment of gold to make a gold statue of himself, which he succeeds in doing before he is captured by Spider-Man. He also appears in season three's compilation episode "Rhino".Rhino was a recurring villain in 1994's Spider-Man: The Animated Series, voiced by Don Stark. While his origin is not detailed in the series, this version still retains abilities from his comics counterpart, though he is portrayed as unintelligent. Debuting in the episode "The Alien Costume" Pt. 1, Rhino is hired by the Kingpin to steal a mineral from John Jameson's space shuttle after it crash-landed on Earth. Kingpin later sends Rhino to obtain another item, during which he fights and is defeated by the black suited Spider-Man. In "The Alien Costume" Pt. 3, Spider-Man, having gotten rid of the black suit, encounters Rhino on the rooftops and fights him again. The latter defeats the former with Shocker's help, but both are incapacitated by Venom. In the episodes "The Insidious Six" and "Battle of the Insidious Six", Rhino appears as a member of the titular team after the Kingpin breaks him and five other supervillains out of prison to kill Spider-Man, though he eventually defeats the group. In the "Six Forgotten Warriors", Rhino joins a reassembled Insidious Six to help Kingpin steal the Red Skull's doomsday device. After being defeated, Rhino and most of the Insidious Six flee.Rhino appears in The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Clancy Brown. Originally a common thug under Tombstone, Alex O'Hirn was partnered with Flint Marko and had repeated run-ins with Spider-Man. In  "The Invisible Hand", Tombstone has O'Hirn used as a guinea pig in Norman Osborn's illegal experiments to prevent Spider-Man from interfering in business. As a result, O'Hirn was infused with Dr. Otto Octavius's titanium resin armor and christens himself the Rhino. Although he proves to be a physically powerful foe, the armor obstructs his pores, forcing Rhino to periodically stop and re-hydrate, a weakness Spider-Man utilizes to defeat him. In "Group Therapy", Rhino is broken out of prison alongside five other supervillains and form the Sinister Six to seek revenge against Spider-Man, but the web-slinger is able to defeat the group using the black suit. In "Reinforcement", Rhino reappears as part of a reassembled Sinister Six. Though he is defeated by Spider-Man once again, he escapes before the police can arrest him. In "Accomplices", Rhino attempts to destroy specs that could lead to mass-produced Rhino soldiers. He briefly teams up with Spider-Man to successfully do so before turning, though he is defeated and arrested. In "Opening Night", having been imprisoned in the Vault, Rhino and his fellow inmates are all released by the Green Goblin to hunt down Spider-Man while there to test the prison's maximum security cells. However, they are eventually subdued by gas released by Walter Hardy and re-incarcerated.
Rhino appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man cartoon series, initially voiced by Max Mittelman and later by Daryl Sabara. While this version is based on Alex O'Hirn, he differs from his Ultimate Marvel counterpart in that he is a highly intelligent teenager who transforms into a less intelligent anthropomorphic rhinoceros instead of wearing battle armor. Introduced in his self-titled episode, Alex attempts to seek revenge against his bully Flash Thompson by drinking a rhinoceros DNA serum that he stole from Oscorp. He is eventually defeated by Spider-Man and Power Man, and arrested by S.H.I.E.L.D.. In "The Sinister Six", Rhino appears as a member of the titular team, agreeing to help Doctor Octopus kill Spider-Man in exchange for more Rhino formula. In "Return of the Sinister Six", Doctor Octopus provides Rhino with tank-like armor so he can serve as a member of the Sinister Six again until they are defeated by Spider-Man's team. In "Rampaging Rhino", having lost the ability to revert to his human form, Rhino escapes S.H.I.E.L.D. custody to renew his vendetta against Agent Venom, though he ultimately surrenders and allows himself to be recaptured. Following this, Spider-Man persuades him to join S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy and learn to use his powers for good. Rhino makes minor appearances in subsequent episodes until "Lizards", when he betrays Spider-Man and helps Doctor Octopus kidnap Agent Venom, leading the others to believe he is a spy. In "Double Agent Venom", it is revealed that Rhino agreed to work for Doctor Octopus again in exchange for regaining his human form, but he eventually sides with Spider-Man's team again and helps them rescue Agent Venom before Doctor Octopus places him under mind control. In "The New Sinister 6" Pt. 1, the brainwashed Rhino appears as a member of the HYDRA-backed Sinister Six and takes part in the team's attack on the Triskelion. Before being defeated, he is able to briefly free himself from the mind control and warn Spider-Man that someone else is the real spy. In the series finale "Graduation Day", the mind-controlled Rhino was forced to join the Superior Sinister Six until Spider-Man reverts him to his human form, which frees him from Doctor Octopus's control. After the Superior Sinister Six are defeated, Alex rejoins S.H.I.E.L.D. Academy.
Rhino appears in the 2010s Spider-Man animated series, voiced primarily by Matthew Mercer and by Ben Pronsky in "Dead Man's Party". This version of Aleksei Sytsevich is a student at Horizon High from Russia while his Rhino form has actual rhinoceroses' weaknesses, such as poor eyesight. Debuting in "A Day in the Life", Aleksei is secretly injected with Rhino serum by Raymond Warren. In "Party Animals", the serum turns Aleksei into the Rhino, who rampages through Horizon High until Spider-Man subdues him and eventually restores him to his human form. In "The Rise of Doc Ock" Pts. 3 & 4, Aleksei is turned into the Rhino again by the Jackal with the additional ability to turn other people into Rhino monsters. He rampages through Osborn Academy until Spider-Man subdues him. Later, Doctor Octopus places Rhino under mind control to make him join the Sinister Five until the "Hobgoblin" when Spider-Man and Harry Osborn as the Hobgoblin frees him. Rhino later goes on a rampage through the city until Spider-Man and the Hobgoblin defeat and capture him. In the third season episode, "Spider-Man Unmasked", Aleksei is injected with the Rhino formula by Swarm, becoming Rhino again, until he is subdued and later cured off-screen by the Spider Team.


=== Film ===
Paul Giamatti plays Aleksei Sytsevich / Rhino in The Amazing Spider-Man 2. In an interview with visual-effects supervisor Jerome Chen, he states that the armor was "put together out of surplus Soviet-era military gear that Oscorp had sold back in the '80s", with Aleksei modifying the armor. In the film, Aleksei is depicted as a dim-witted and boastful Russian mobster who stole Oscorp plutonium, but was foiled by Spider-Man. Following Electro and Green Goblin's defeat, Gustav Fiers grants Aleksei a rhinoceros-themed mecha suit armed with heavy machine guns and missile launchers. After a shootout with police, he is confronted by Spider-Man and engages in him a fight as the film ends.
Paul Giamatti confirmed that Rhino was planned to return in The Amazing Spider-Man 3. However, the Amazing Spider-Man franchise was later cancelled and rebooted with Spider-Man: Homecoming, a new film set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.


=== Video games ===
Rhino's first video game appearance was in the 1989 game Doctor Doom's Revenge.
Rhino appears as a boss in The Amazing Spider-Man for the Game Boy.
Rhino appears in Spider-Man/X-Men: Arcade's Revenge, joining forces with Carnage to defeat Spider-Man.
Rhino appears as a boss in The Incredible Hulk for the SNES, Sega Genesis, SMS and Sega Game Gear.
Rhino appears as a mini-boss in the 1995 game Spider-Man video game based on the 1990s animated series for the SNES and Sega Genesis.
Rhino appears as a boss in the 2000 Spider-Man game, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. He is hired by Doctor Octopus to attack a power plant owned by Omni-Tech as a distraction while he steals a device. Rhino fights Spider-Man and Black Cat, wounding the latter before Spider-Man defeats him and he is arrested.
Rhino appears as a boss in the Game Boy Advance game Spider-Man: Mysterio's Menace.
Rhino appears as a boss across all versions of the Spider-Man 2 video game, voiced by John DiMaggio. This iteration of Rhino has spikes on his costume and claws.
In the Treyarch version, Spider-Man fights Rhino after he steals a chemical weapon and easily defeats him before leaving him for the police.
In the PC version, Rhino escapes from a maximum security prison during a riot, but is defeated by Spider-Man. Later, Doctor Octopus retrieves Rhino and has him battle Spider-Man again while he steals a device from Oscorp, though the web-slinger is able to defeat him once more.
In the PSP version of the game, Rhino breaks Shocker out of prison before they are both hired by Doctor Octopus to steal a piece of equipment for him. After Spider-Man defeats learns Rhino and Shocker are at the docks, he goes there to defeat them and leave them for the police.
The Ultimate Marvel version of R.H.I.N.O. appears as a boss in the 2005 Ultimate Spider-Man game, voiced by Bob Glouberman. While rampaging through Queens, Alex O'Hirn is confronted by Spider-Man, who defeats him by exploiting a weak spot on the R.H.I.N.O. armor's back before leaving O'Hirn for the police.
Rhino appears as a mini-boss in the video game Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Peter Lurie. He is a member of Doctor Doom's Masters of Evil. Rhino and Shocker first appear working with Arcade before later being tasked with guarding a defeated Heimdall. Rhino also appears in the Thing's simulation disk at S.H.I.E.L.D.'s Omega Base.
Rhino appears as a boss in the Spider-Man 3 video game, voiced by Steven Blum.  This version of the character has a condition that leaves his skin resemble an actual rhinoceros and wears a helmet resembling that of his traditional costume. After being released from a police van by a mind-controlled Scorpion, Rhino is hired by Dr. Farley Stillwell to become her bodyguard. He fights Spider-Man and Scorpion when they arrive to confront her, and is defeated by the former.
Rhino appears as a playable character and a boss in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, with John DiMaggio reprising his role. He appears as one of several villains who Mysterio captured and placed under mind control before sending him to Tangaroa Island to retrieve a meteor shard. After Spider-Man defeats him and destroys his mind-control device, Rhino joins forces with him to exact revenge on Mysterio; becoming a playable character.
Rhino appears in Spider-Man: Web of Shadows, voiced by Fred Tatasciore.  He first appears as an inmate at Ryker's Island before Spider-Man releases from his cell to help him break out the Tinkerer. Upon doing so, Spider-Man is presented with the choice of tricking Rhino into returning to his cell or releasing him as well. Regardless of the choice made, Rhino becomes an assist character, whom Spider-Man can ride to defeat enemies once summoned. In the PS2 and PSP versions, Rhino serves as a boss. In these versions, he was hired to guard Spencer Smythe's and A.I.M.'s underground lab before Spider-Man battles and defeats Rhino on his way out of the lab.
Rhino appears as a boss in Spider-Man: Total Mayhem. While this game takes place in the Ultimate Marvel universe, this Rhino is shown to be less intelligent that his Ultimate Marvel incarnation.
Rhino appears exclusively in the Nintendo DS version of Spider-Man: Edge of Time, voiced again by Fred Tatasciore.  Rhino takes Anti-Venom's place as the one who was inadvertently fused with Walker Sloan and Doctor Octopus to become the monstrous Atrocity (also voiced by Fred Tatasciore).
Rhino appears in as a boss in The Amazing Spider-Man video game, with Fred Tatasciore reprising the role. This version of the character is a hybrid of a man and a rhinoceros, created by a corrupt Oscorp scientist using gene-splicing technology so it could be sold to a Russian crime syndicate as a living weapon. Alongside the other cross-species created by Oscorp using Dr. Curt Connors' old research, Rhino escapes and terrorizes the people of New York before Spider-Man eventually finds and defeats it; leaving it for the authorities. Rhino later appears in a side mission, where it attacks the city's water treatment facility and is defeated by Spider-Man once again. Rhino is also featured as a playable character in the Rhino Challenge DLC pack.
Rhino appears as a boss in Marvel Heroes, voiced by Benjamin Diskin.
Rhino appears as a playable character and a boss in Lego Marvel Super Heroes, voiced by Robin Atkin Downes. In the game's story, Captain America, Storm, and the Thing fight Rhino and Mystique posing as Magneto in the Savage Land while trying to stop Asteroid M's launch.
Rhino appears as a boss in the mobile version of The Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game, voiced again by Robin Atkin Downes. Aleksei Sytsevich first appears as a small-time criminal who is defeated by Spider-Man early on in the story and arrested by the police. Near the end of the game, he is broken out of prison and dons his rhinoceros-themed armor. Rhino attacks Spider-Man and Black Cat at the docks, but is ultimately defeated by the former and returned to police custody. The Rhino armor from the film also appears as an easter egg in the other versions of the game.
Rhino appears as a boss in the mobile game Marvel: Avengers Alliance 2.
Rhino appears as a playable character and a boss in Marvel: Future Fight.
Rhino appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
Rhino appears in 2018's Spider-Man game, voiced again by Fred Tatasciore. This version of the character is a former enforcer for the Russian Mob whose powers come from an experimental, irremovable rhinoceros-themed combat suit that increases his strength. As one of Spider-Man's oldest adversaries, Rhino has fought him on numerous occasions over the course of the hero's past eight-year career. At the beginning of the game's storyline, Rhino is imprisoned at the maximum security supervillain prison, the Raft. Later in the game, Otto Octavius stages a prison break to help Rhino escape and join his Sinister Six in exchange for removing his armor. After the Sinister Six easily defeat Spider-Man, they split up to attack different Oscorp properties, with Rhino being sent to the docks to waylay relief supplies. Spider-Man eventually arrives to defeat him and Scorpion, who had joined Rhino to assist him. After turning the villains against each other, Spider-Man locks them inside a shipping container just as the police arrive to take them back into custody.


=== Novels ===
Rhino appears in Jim Butcher's Spider-Man novel The Darkest Hours, in which he and Spider-Man are forced to ally against Morlun's family. Along the way, the two old foes gain a deeper respect for one another. In fact, after listening to Aleksei's life story, Peter discovers that the two of them are not all that different and have had similar life problems.


=== Theatre ===
Rhino appears as one of several villains in the Marvel Universe Live! stage show.


=== Toys and collectibles ===
Rhino has been reproduced in action figure form several times by Toy Biz, first as part of their Spider-Man: The Animated Series line, then as part of Spider-Man Classics, and finally as part of their Marvel Legends series. The Spider-Man Classics figure was later repainted and reissued by Hasbro.
The character has been reproduced in mini-bust form by Art Asylum as part of their Rogues Gallery collection and as both a bust and statue by Bowen Designs. Rhino has also been made into a comiquette statue by Sideshow Collectibles.


== References ==


== External links ==
Rhino at Marvel.com
Rhino at Spiderfan.org