
Riot is the name used by a symbiote in Marvel Comics. The symbiote, created by David Michelinie and Ron Lim, first appeared in Venom: Lethal Protector #4 (May 1993), and was named in Carnage, U.S.A. #2 (March 2012)  after an unrelated purplish-black, four-armed action figure from the Planet of the Symbiotes toyline. The Riot symbiote is one of five symbiote "children" forcefully spawned from the Venom symbiote alongside four other symbiotes: Agony, Phage, Lasher and Scream. 
Riot's first host is Trevor Cole, a mercenary hired by Carlton Drake's Life Foundation in San Francisco. Trevor is one of several employees to be bonded with a symbiote, along with Donna Diego (Scream), Leslie Gesneria (Agony), Carl Mach (Phage) and Ramon Hernandez (Lasher). Riot and his four symbiote "siblings" are defeated by Spider-Man and Eddie Brock. The symbiotes' hosts later kidnap Brock in an attempt to communicate with their symbiotes. When Eddie refuses to aid, Trevor is killed along with Leslie and Carl; the others initially believe that Brock was picking the group off but the killer is actually Scream, having snapped from Donna's schizophrenia and the Scream symbiote's influence.The Riot symbiote later merges with Phage, Lasher and Agony to become the Hybrid symbiote, but a military group later separates them for the U.S. government.Riot's second host is Howard Ogden, a Petty Officer assigned the Riot symbiote within the Mercury Team special force. When Carnage is loose in Colorado, Howard trains with the Riot symbiote for months on specific tasks alongside Rico Axelson (Phage), Marcus Simms (Lasher) and James Murphy (Agony). Unfortunately, Howard and his teammates are later killed by Carnage in their secret base. The four symbiotes bond to Deadpool to fight Carnage, and then bond with Mercury Team's dog (the sole survivor of Carnage's attack against the taskforce) after the fight.During the "Absolute Carnage" storyline, the dog-infected symbiote came across a family who keep fighting. The Knull-possessed symbiotes erupt to which the Agony and Riot symbiotes take over Sadie's parents with Riot bonding to the father. The symbiote-bonded family then decide to go to New York and help Carnage's quest.


=== Riot in other media ===
Riot (Trevor Cole) appears as a boss character in Spider-Man and Venom: Separation Anxiety.
The Riot symbiote appears as an alternate design of Hybrid (Scott Washington) in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
Riot (Trevor Cole) appears as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.
The Riot symbiote appears as one of the two main antagonists in the 2018 film Venom. An amalgamation of its comic counterpart and the Phage symbiote, this version is a "team leader" for a symbiote infiltration squad. After escaping the Life Foundation's first spaceship, Riot goes through multiple hosts: a surviving astronaut, a Malaysian paramedic (portrayed by Michelle Lee), an elderly Malaysian woman (portrayed by Vickie Eng) and a young Caucasian girl (portrayed by Zeva DuVall). Arriving in San Francisco, Riot ultimately bonds with Carlton Drake (portrayed by Riz Ahmed) in an attempt to bring more symbiotes. Riot has a winning battle against Venom until Venom ruptures the Life Foundation's second spaceship's fuel tank which makes an explosion, killing both Riot and his host.


