
Roberta is a fictional android in Marvel Comics. The character, created by John Byrne, first appeared in Fantastic Four #239 (February 1982).
Roberta was created by Reed Richards when he realized that no one would apply to work as the Fantastic Four's receptionist. She is known for her calm demeanor in the face of unusual situations and resembles a blonde haired woman with glasses down to the waist, where the rest of her is a machine connected to a desk. She has dealt with the Thing, Black Cat, Kitty Pryde and John Byrne. She once took down the Trapster in one blow. When Kristoff Vernard blew up the Baxter Building, he also destroyed Roberta.When the Baxter Building was rebuilt, so was Roberta with her memories intact. She showed some slight confusion over the sight of seeing Doctor Doom with Alicia Masters and for once was unsure of what to do. She was ripped from her circuits by Mad Thinker when his mind was trapped in the body of the Awesome Android. Reed was able to rebuild her, however. She once again showed minor interest in the strange going ons around her. She witnessed Luke Cage drive his car through the Baxter Building and then witnessed him fight the Thing. Scott Lang has deduced that Roberta is incapable of sarcasm as she cheerfully told Alicia "you're welcome" after it was apparent that her thanks was sarcastic. She also prefers to call herself a "mechanized human".Roberta received a redesign when the Four Freedoms Plaza was donated to the Thunderbolts. While the original design still had blonde hair and wore glasses, the Four Freedoms Plaza version had black hair while the Thunderbolts Plaza version had long brown hair. Roberta got another redesign, this time she had a full, silvery humanoid body and was first seen meeting with new Fantastic Four writer Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. She has since started dating former killer robot turned assistant mail man Elektro and the two have since started living together.


=== Roberta in other media ===
Roberta appears in Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer played by Patricia Harras. She is only credited as Fan Four Receptionist even though she is referred to as Roberta within the film. This version is a hologram who greets General Hager who is looking for Reed only to be deactivated by Susan Storm.


