Scorpion (Marvel Comics)

The Scorpion is the name of multiple characters in Marvel Comics, almost all of them supervillains. The best known incarnation is Mac Gargan, who is an enemy of the superhero Spider-Man.


== Publication history ==
The monster version of Scorpion first appeared in Journey into Mystery #82 (July 1962).
The Sam Scorpio version first appeared in Kid Colt, Outlaw #115 (March 1964) and was a Wild West villain who fought Kid Colt.
The Mac Gargan version was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko. Gargan first appeared in The Amazing Spider-Man #19 (December 1964) and first appeared as the Scorpion in Amazing Spider-Man #20 (January 1965). Years later, he became the third incarnation of Venom in Marvel Knights: Spider-Man #10 (March 2005) and impersonated Spider-Man in Dark Avengers #1 (March 2009). Mac Gargan appeared in the character's first own 4-issue limited series, Dark Reign: Sinister Spider-Man. The comic was released in June 2009 and was written by Brian Reed, with art by Chris Bachalo. Writer Dan Slott has stated that Mac Gargan will return as the original Scorpion, in an upcoming arc of The Amazing Spider-Man.The Jim Evans version of Scorpion first appeared in Rawhide Kid #57 (April 1967) and was a Wild West villain who fought Rawhide Kid.
The Elaine Coll version of the character first appeared in Spider-Man: The Power of Terror #2 (Feb. 1995) and was created by Gregory Wright and Darick Robertson.
Carmilla Black first appeared in Amazing Fantasy vol 2. #7 (June 2005).


== Fictional character biography ==


=== Monster Scorpion ===
The first Scorpion was seen as a giant monster. During an experiment with a bismuth isotope, Paul Rodgers accidentally struck a normal scorpion with a stream of delta particles. It was mutated into a giant monstrous form and gained the consciousness to hate the human race. It told Paul Rodgers and Edward Bentley that it would mutate another bunch of scorpions and take over the world. Edward managed to hypnotize the Scorpion into thinking that it was feeling the pains from the radiation poisoning. When the Scorpion begged for Paul and Edward to end its life, they complied and killed the Scorpion by firing another stream of delta particles at it.


=== Sam Scorpio ===
Sam Scorpio is an inventor who used his "sting" (a derringer fitted to a silencer on his forearm) to terrorize the Old West. Scorpion later encountered Kid Colt while running from a 50-man posse and begged for his help. Kid Colt refused until an earthquake occurred and they hid under a boulder. By the time Kid Colt and Scorpion emerged, the posse caught up to them and they were taken to prison. While in jail, Scorpion used his "sting" on a guard. Upon grabbing the guard's keys, Scorpion forced Kid Colt to accompany him. He took Kid Colt to a hideout in the hills and wanted Kid Colt to join him. When Kid Colt asked about the secret of his "sting," Scorpion turned on him. Kid Colt shot out the lamp for cover from Scorpion's sting and Scorpion fled where he told the posse where they can find Kid Colt. Afterwards, Scorpion set up a gang where he kept them in line with his "sting." Kid Colt went after Scorpion's gang upon figuring out what his gimmick was. Kid Colt defeated Scorpion's gang and defeated Scorpion in hand-to-hand combat before he could use his "sting." Kid Colt then turned Scorpion and his gang over to the authorities.Scorpion was imprisoned in a State Prison where he was part of a chain gang with Dr. Danger and Bull Barton. When Kid Colt ended up in the same prison after turning himself over to the law, Scorpion, Dr. Danger, and Bull Barton decided that this was the opportunity for revenge. One day, they attacked Kid Colt in unison while on work detail. When a prison guard intervened, they took his gun, overpowered the guard, and broke their chains. Then they grazed Kid Colt with another bullet and fled. Across the border, Scorpion, Dr. Danger, and Bull Barton came across a town where Fred Yates (the man that Kid Colt turned himself over to) lived. When Scorpion, Dr. Danger, and Bull Barton confronted Fred Yates and his sister Susan, Fred fled in sheer terror. Kid Colt caught up to the trio, disarmed them, and saved Susan. Kid Colt then sent Scorpion, Dr. Danger, and Bull Barton back over the border to the waiting arms of the law.


=== Mac Gargan ===

Mac Gargan first appeared in Amazing Spider-Man #19 and was created by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko. He was a private investigator who was hired by J. Jonah Jameson to find out how Peter Parker was able to obtain the photos of Spider-Man. When Spider-Man evaded Gargan, J. Jonah Jameson decided to use Gargan as a test subject for an experiment done by Farley Stillwell which led to Gargan becoming the Scorpion in order to defeat Spider-Man. Many years later, Gargan becomes a host for the Venom symbiote. After the Venom symbiote was removed from him in the aftermath of the Siege storyline, Gargan was sprung from the Raft by Alistair Smythe and outfitted with a new Scorpion suit.


=== Jim Evans ===
Jim Evans is a successful apothecary in Dustville during the Old West. He began to date Sarah (the prettiest girl in town) until she began to neglect him upon stating that she already has a boyfriend in Matt Cody. Matt Cody was not pleased that Sarah went out with Jim and challenged him to a shootout. Jim drew his gun first and only managed to wing Matt in the left arm as Matt managed to shoot Jim's gun out of his hand. Matt then made Jim dance with his gun. Jim was humiliated and vowed revenge. Upon inventing a liquid paralytic that he can fire no matter where he would hit them, Jim took on the identity of Scorpion and embarked on a crime spree. Scorpion managed to hold up a stagecoach and the sound of his gun attracted the attention of Rawhide Kid. Rawhide Kid managed to tackle Scorpion who hit Rawhide Kid with a paralytic pellet and continued to rob the stagecoach where he made off with the payroll. Upon questioning the nearby town about Scorpion, Rawhide Kid learned that there had been an apothecary who had been around for four months which allowed Rawhide Kid to determine his identity. Rawhide Kid followed Jim to an abandoned mine, watched him change into Scorpion, and then confronted him. Their fight collapsed the mine and Rawhide Kid fell into an underground stream. Rawhide Kid recovered and went after Scorpion again. When Scorpion fired the paralytic pellet again, Rawhide Kid twisted Scorpion's wrist causing Scorpion to get hit by his own paralytic pellet. Rawhide Kid then turned Scorpion over to Dustville's sheriff.After six months in jail, Jim Evans managed to mix up a small amount of his stun potion in the prison workshop. He used it on a guard, grabbed his keys, and escaped from jail. Taking on the alias of Sting-Ray, Jim Evans went on another crime spree until he arrived in Bison Bend and decided to settle there as the base of his ultimate destiny as the Emperor of the West. Sting-Ray robbed a bunch of people at Bison Bend's square dance. Clay Riley and Sheriff Ben Brooks tried to stop him, but ended up victims of his stun pellets. Sting-Ray later kidnapped Sheriff Ben Brooks' daughter Natalie holding her hostage until he got the power he demanded. However, he was foiled by Phantom Rider who attacked Sting-Ray. Phantom Rider managed to defeat Sting-Ray and unmasked him after he was distracted by Natalie's shouting. The sheriff and his men arrived and chased after Phantom Rider.


=== Elaine Coll ===
Elaine Coll is recruited by Silvermane from a mental hospital to become the new Scorpion. She opts to call herself Scorpia instead and is given robotic armor which enhanced her strength and speed 500 percent. Scorpia successfully brings Deathlok to Silvermane, and is ordered to ambush Spider-Man and Daredevil, who had infiltrated their base. She wears them down, but is then betrayed by Silvermane, who shoots her in the back. Scorpia follows Spider-Man and Daredevil to Silvermane's location, and once there immediately attacks him. Mainframe, another of Silvermane's mercenaries, takes control of Scorpia's cybernetic enhancements and uses her to attack Spider-Man. However, she soon regained mobility and blasted Silvermane. An explosion created by The Punisher knocked Scorpia off the building they were on, but a mentally conflicted Deathlok saved her. She then decided to flee the area, rather than be put in prison.Scorpia then joins the new Sinister Six (though there were seven members total). The team's main purpose was to stop Kaine from killing any more of Spider-Man's enemies. When Kaine disguised himself as Spider-Man and attacked Hobgoblin, Scorpia immediately joined the others in the battle. However, they were not accustomed to working together, much to Scorpia's disdain. Spider-Man eventually entered the battle and was able to defeat Scorpia herself. She also participated in another battle against Spider-Man with some of her former allies, and new ones such as Boomerang and Jack O' Lantern. She was defeated when Spider-Man threw Jack O'Lantern at her.Much later, Scorpia fights Spider-Man and Black Cat, and is defeated when Black Cat rips her tail off. She later reveals that she was hired by Alberto Ortega, the head of a local drug syndicate.During the "Infinity" storyline, Scorpia appears as one of the female villains in the employ of Caroline Le Fay. She helps fight off Thanos' forces and later battles the Fearless Defenders. Scorpia remained in Le Fay's employ afterward, acting as one of her bodyguards during a meeting with the Mercs for Money.During the "Hunted" storyline, Scorpia is among the animal-themed characters that were captured by Taskmaster and Black Ant for Kraven the Hunter's Great Hunt which is sponsored by Arcade's company Arcade Industries. She was seen at a gathering held by Vulture. She was later freed when Kraven the Hunter told Arcade to lower the force field around Central Park.Scorpia appears as a member of a female incarnation of the Sinister Syndicate. She states to Francine Frye that she heard about her frying the original Electro and stealing his schtick. The Sinister Syndicate begins their mission where they attack the F.E.A.S.T. building that Boomerang is volunteering at. Beetle leads the Sinister Syndicate in attacking Boomerang. It was stated by Boomerang that he was the one who came up with the Sinister Syndicate name. After getting Aunt May to safety, Peter Parker changes into Spider-Man and helps Boomerang fight the Syndicate. The Syndicate starts doing their formation attack until Spider-Man accidentally sets off Boomerang's gaserang which knocks out Spider-Man enough for the Syndicate to make off with Boomerang. As Beetle has Electro write a proposal on how the Syndicate can use Boomerang as an example to the criminal underworld, Beetle leaves while calling Wilson Fisk that they caught Boomerang as she is given the information on where the exchange can happen. Scorpia later mentioned to the Syndicate members that Rhino once refused to arm wrestle her. When Beetle returns to the headquarters, Scorpia is present when Mayor Wilson Fisk brings the full force of New York City to their headquarters demanding that they surrender Boomerang to him. The Syndicate then assists Spider-Man against Mayor Fisk's forces. After Spider-Man evacuates Boomerang, the Syndicate fights Mayor Fisk's forces while not killing them. The Syndicate is defeated and arrested by the police. Their transport is then attacked by an unknown assailant who frees them.Scorpia's cybernetic suit provides superhuman physical attributes derived from that of Scorpion. It can also project energy blasts and emit a micro-thin force field.


=== Carmilla Black ===

Carmilla Black first appeared in Amazing Fantasy vol. 2 #7 and was created by Fred Van Lente and Leonard Kirk. She became a member of S.H.I.E.L.D. in order to find her mother.


== Other versions ==


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
The first Ultimate Marvel incarnation of Scorpion is one of Peter Parker's clones. Dressed like a scorpion and attacking the mall, he was revealed to be a mentally unstable clone that was fitted into a green armored suit. This clone additionally had a mechanical tail grafted onto his spine that had the ability to shoot acid. The clone was eventually subdued by Spider-Man (Peter Parker) and taken to the Fantastic Four who eventually gave it to S.H.I.E.L.D.. At the end of the clone saga storyline, Nick Fury tells subordinates menacingly to "get to work" while walking out of the room the clone is being held in.A second version of Scorpion was Maximus Gargan, a tattooed Mexican mob boss that worked with the Prowler (Aaron Davis). This Gargan is the second villain to take on the alias of Scorpion, the first being a deranged, imperfect clone of Peter Parker. He is shown to have very resistant skin, but may have other powers as well. Once he arrived at New York, Gargan set his sights on becoming the new "Kingpin of New York", but was stopped by the efforts of an un-easy alliance of Spider-Man and Prowler.


=== Scorpion 2099 ===
Kron Stone appears in the Timestorm 2009–2099 as the alternate Marvel 2099 reality version of Scorpion. Kron Stone was one of Miguel O'Hara's nightmares during high school, a bully used to do whatever he wanted thanks to the influence of his father Tyler Stone ready to solve any trouble the son caused. One evening, Kron was tormenting the lab animals in an Alchemax laboratory, using the powerful instruments found there. While toying with a gene splicer, Stone was attacked by a sudden surge of energy, resulting in an explosion, and his DNA was fused with that of a lab scorpion. The incident transformed Stone in a hulkling and monstrous beast, with his reason lost and the powerful instinct of an arachnid to guide him. Rejected by his father, he becomes obsessed with finding a way to reverse his mutation.


=== Earth-65 ===
Jefferson Davis takes on the Scorpion name in Earth-65. He wears an electric charged suit, carries a scorpion themed staff and possesses some limited super speed. Jefferson works for the organization S.I.L.K. and fought Spider-Gwen, Silk, and Spider-Woman


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears in the 1967 Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Carl Banas.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears in Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends, voiced by Neil Ross.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears in Spider-Man: The Animated Series, voiced initially by Martin Landau and later by Richard Moll.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion was set to appear on The Spectacular Spider-Man animated series' third season before it was canceled.
An unnamed version of Scorpion appears in the Ultimate Spider-Man animated series, initially voiced by Dante Basco and later by Eric Bauza. This version is a composite character of the comics' Scorpion and Iron Fist villain Steel Serpent. He initially wields a kusarigama resembling a scorpion tail and wears an outfit resembling the Mortal Kombat character who shares his name. In his debut episode, "Journey of the Iron Fist", Scorpion is set to compete against Iron Fist for K'un-L'un's throne. Beforehand, he travels to New York and poisons his opponent in an attempt to improve his chances. As a result, Iron Fist is forced to appoint Spider-Man as his replacement. During the competition, the web-slinger deduced Scorpion's plan and saved him from a trap due to his greed. Though Scorpion wins the challenge, Spider-Man is named the winner for his selflessness. Enraged, Scorpion tries to attack Iron Fist, but is swiftly defeated and exiled from K'un-Lun. In "Return of the Sinister Six", Scorpion joins the second iteration of the Sinister Six and is given high-tech armor. He fights Iron Fist, but is eventually defeated by Spider-Man. After making minor, non-speaking appearances in the episodes "Agent Venom", "New Warriors", and "Contest of Champions" Pt. 1, Scorpion returns in the series finale, "Graduation Day", as part of the Superior Sinister Six with a new set of armor that allows him to turn invisible. Despite this, he is eventually defeated by Spider-Man once more.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears in Marvel's Spider-Man animated series, voiced by Jason Spisak.


=== Film ===
Mac Gargan appears in Spider-Man: Homecoming, played by Michael Mando.
An unnamed, Hispanic version of Scorpion appears in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse, voiced by Joaquín Cosio. This version is loosely based on the Ultimate iteration and is depicted as a cybernetically augmented gangster resembling a scorpion man working under Kingpin. In the film, Scorpion accompanies Kingpin and his fellow henchmen in attacking a group of alternate dimension-displaced Spider-People at May Parker's house to reclaim a USB drive that could threaten Kingpin's plans. In the final battle at the crime lord's Super-Collider, Scorpion is defeated by Spider-Man Noir, Peni Parker, and Spider-Ham. He is later seen being arrested by the police alongside Kingpin and the other villains involved.


=== Video games ===
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion was a boss in the Game Boy game The Amazing Spider-Man.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appeared in the Game Boy Color video game Spider-Man 2: The Sinister Six.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appeared in the arcade game Spider-Man: The Video Game.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appeared as a sub-boss in the Super NES and Genesis Spider-Man video game based on the 1990s animated series.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appeared as a boss in the Japan-exclusive Super Famicom game Spider-Man: Lethal Foes.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in the Neversoft Spider-Man, voiced by Daran Norris. He is also briefly seen in the game's sequel, Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in the 2002 multiple platform game Spider-Man video game, voiced by Mike McColl.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in the Game Boy Advance game Spider-Man: Mysterio's Menace.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by Beau Weaver.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in the Spider-Man 3 video game, voiced by Dee Bradley Baker.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss and playable character in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, voiced by Fred Tatasciore.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a boss in the Wii, PS2 and PSP versions of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Jim Cummings.
The Kron Stone version of Scorpion appears in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions, voiced by John Kassir. He seeks to steal a fragment of the Tablet of Order and Chaos for a mysterious scientist in exchange for her restoring his human form. The fragment also empowers him, allowing the Scorpion to lay eggs and create offspring that share his deadly abilities. Despite this, Spider-Man 2099 was able to defeat him.
A new iteration of Scorpion appears in The Amazing Spider-Man 2012 video game. This version of the character is a scorpion-human hybrid created by Oscorp physicist Otto Octavius using Dr. Curt Connors' cross-species research to infuse a black fat–tailed scorpion with human DNA and "black goo". Scorpion and the other cross-species go berserk after it senses Peter Parker's spider DNA during a tour and escape from Oscorp, infecting numerous civilians and causing chaos in the city. Scorpion fights Spider-Man when he returns to Oscorp, but he defeats it. Scorpion later escapes from Oscorp a second time and attacks the docks, but Spider-Man battles and defeats it once again before it is taken in by the police.
In The Amazing Spider-Man 2 video game, Kraven the Hunter hunted and killed the Scorpion cross-species off-screen before turning it into a mounted trophy.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2.
The Mac Gargan version of Scorpion appears in the 2018 Spider-Man video game, voiced again by Jason Spisak.


== See also ==
Scorpion (disambiguation)
Silver Scorpion, a Marvel Comics superheroine who was a member of the Invaders.
Scorpio, a number of Marvel Comics characters.


== References ==


== External links ==
Scorpion (monster) at Marvel Appendix
Scorpion (Sam Scorpio) at Marvel Appendix
Scorpion (Jim Evans) at Marvel Appendix
Ultimate Scorpion at Marvel.com
Scorpion (disambiguation) at Marvel Wiki
Ultimate Scorpion at Marvel Wiki
Scorpion 2099 at Marvel Wiki