
Tanis Nevies first appeared in Carnage #1 (Dec 2010), while as Scorn in Carnage #5 and is killed in Web of Venom: Carnage Born #1. 
After Carnage was ripped in half by the Sentry outside the Earth atmosphere it is later discovered that, although the host was presumably killed, the symbiote survived by becoming dormant and returned to Earth, where it was discovered by Michael Hall, a competitor of Tony Stark. He brought Shriek and her doctor, Tanis Nevies, so he could use Shriek to keep the symbiote alive in order of using the properties of the symbiote, to create prosthetic limbs and exo-suits which respond in the same ways as a symbiote. One such person, Dr. Tanis Nevies, is outfitted with one of these prosthetic arms after she is caught in an attack by the Doppelganger, who tried to rescue Shriek. When near the symbiote, her arm goes wild and forces her to kill several scientists before the symbiote forcefully bonds to her, becoming the new Carnage. After the symbiote uses Tanis to break into a Hall Corporation facility, it is revealed that Kasady is alive, his body preserved by the symbiote and repaired by Hall's prosthetics. Kasady reclaims the symbiote and becomes Carnage once more, attempting to avenge his captivity while Spider-Man and Iron Man struggle to stop him. It is then revealed that Carnage was once again pregnant, and the suit's spawn briefly bonds to Tanis, but she removes it from herself and the symbiote bonds to Shriek before being torn from her. Scared of Shriek's malice, the symbiote arm then rebonds to Tanis, creating a new hero, Scorn, who defeats Shriek and forces her to use her sonic shriek to weaken Carnage, but he escapes.In Carnage USA, when Carnage invaded Doverton, Colorado and bonded to its citizens and the Avengers team, who originally tried to stop Carnage, the government send in another team consisted of symbiote-enhanced special forces. Dr. Tanis Nieves as Scorn goes along with the Mercury Team, soldiers bonded the Agony, Phage, Riot, and Lasher symbiotes, in order to stop Carnage, but they are heavily outnumbered since Carnage controls the entire town. The enhanced special forces keep fighting but Carnage sends the controlled Avengers after them, that was when Spider-Man comes with the unaffected residents of the town. The melee is particularly fierce when Agent Venom intervenes with sonic rounds. Scorn uses a construction vehicle to carry the two to a device she built and reveals that her device is meant to permanently remove the bonds from Carnage and Venom, but the hosts are still in there. After the symbiotes fighting with themselves and the Avengers team, Venom finds its way back to Flash Thompson while Scorn is able to capture and contain the Carnage symbiote.In Carnage Born, it's revealed that Scorn got corrupted by Knull and started a cult in worshiping him. She with her followers retrieve the Grendel symbiote's remnants from Maker, along with Cletus' damaged body following the Venomized event. After implanting the remnants inside Cletus, he started to fight for control. She offers herself to Cletus so he could absorb the Carnage remnants left in her body, but instead he kills her getting her blood to become Carnage again, though the original symbiote is actually in Alchemax.


=== Scorn in other media ===
Scorn will appear in Spider-Man: Maximum Venom, voiced by Kylee Russell. She first appears in the promo "The Secret Story of Venom" as one of the Symbiote Sisters, the first symbiotes and creations of the eldritch god Knull, alongside All-Black, Scream, and Mania. She, alongside her sisters and Venom himself will be the main antagonists of the season. Her eventual host, Tanis Nevies, will appear as well, also voiced by Russell.
Scorn appears as a playable character in Spider-Man Unlimited.


