Senyaka

Suvik Senyaka is a fictional mutant supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is the first ever Sri Lankan character to appear in Marvel Comics, followed by Dr. Amara Perera.


== Publication history ==
Senyaka first appeared in Uncanny X-Men #300 and was created by Scott Lobdell and John Romita Jr.


== Fictional character biography ==
Senyaka is a mutant recruited by Fabian Cortez as a member of a second group of the Acolytes. On their first mission, this new team of Acolytes attacked the Our Mother of The Sacred Heart school while searching for a mutant child. During the assault, Senyaka displeased his lord Magneto after critically injuring a human nurse with his energy coils and was subsequently slain by Magneto who crushed the life out of Senyaka with his own coils. (It is worth noting, however, that Magneto killed him because he had acted without Magneto's approval, not because of Senyaka's sadistic nature. Magneto explained that, had he been present, he would have given Senyaka his blessing, but as he was not, he punished the Acolyte for acting without his orders.)Senyaka survived, however, by siphoning the life energy from agents from the international law enforcement agency known as S.H.I.E.L.D. who had recovered Senyaka's body. Seeking revenge on Magneto, Senyaka set out to kill sea captain Lee Forrester, a former paramour of the self-styled master of magnetism. Forrester teamed up with the mutant soldier from the future named Cable, and Senyaka was seemingly killed once more in the ensuing battle.Senyaka later reappeared once more as a member of a faction of Acolytes led by Exodus, who has the ability to bring people back to life.  The Acolytes participated in an assault on Wundagore Mountain in the European country of Transia, home of the enigmatic scientist known as the High Evolutionary. The Evolutionary had developed a powerful mutagenic compound known as Isotope-E, which the Acolytes coveted for themselves.After Exodus was defeated, Senyaka found himself amongst the ranks of former Acolytes who were aiding the Carrion Cove rebellion against Magneto's rule of the island nation of Genosha. With the genocide of the Genoshan population at the hands of giant mutant-hunting robot Sentinels controlled by Cassandra Nova, the genetic twin of Professor Charles Xavier, Senyaka was believed dead.


=== After M-Day ===
Some time passed before Senyaka would return. Upon his return, the nature of which is still unknown, he joined the ranks of Exodus' new team of Acolytes.  Following the X-Men's battle against the Hecatomb, Senyaka appeared on Cable's decimated island nation of Providence alongside new Marauders, Gambit and Sunfire, in an attempt to claim the island's information archives, which would allow access to Cable's future technology. While Gambit and Sunfire faced Cable, Senyaka battled Deadpool and appeared to gain the upper hand before Deadpool was teleported away by Cable's technology.


=== Necrosha ===
When Selene dispatches her Inner Circle to retrieve the mystical knife necessary to complete her ritual, Senyaka mortally wounds several mutants with death-related powers. At first when she tries to fool him by appearing before him as a little girl, he tells her to drop her disguise as he will kill for her because she is different compared to the others he has served. They travel to Selene's birthplace, Rome and New York where they slaughter the members of that branch of the Hellfire Club. After being led to the ruins of Genosha by Caliban, Selene declares this is where she will become a goddess and renames it Necrosha.When Selene dispatches her Inner Circle to retrieve the mystical knife necessary to complete her ritual, Senyaka mortally wounds Meld, then teams up with Blink to attack Archangel, using his coils to restrain him, while Blink teleports his wings to shreds. Senyaka is later attacked by Wolverine, who drives his claws into his chest. Senyaka is unfazed by this, declaring he has been killed before. In the final fight, Senyaka ensnares Wolverine in his coils, slamming him in to walls. X-23 releases him when she cuts Senyaka's arm off. Wolverine takes advantage of the situation, decapitating Senyaka.


== Powers and abilities ==
Senyaka possesses the power to drain the bio-electrical essence of others upon physical contact. The living energy he drains augments his natural strength, endurance, and reflexes, as well as accelerating his recuperative powers significantly.
Senyaka can also utilize the excess life-force he drains to generate a pair of psionic whips composed of bio-electric energy. These whips move according to his mental command and can greatly increase the distance of his absorption ability. The whips can also conduct his bio-electric energy to ignite nerve clusters in an opponent to cause intense pain or paralysis, as well as sear into their flesh.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
Senyaka made a cameo appearance in the X-Men Animated Series episode "Secrets, Not Long Buried". Senyaka is one of the many residents of the mutant-dominated community of Skull Mesa.
Senyaka first appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode "Greetings from Genosha". He is one of the many Acolytes of Magneto. In "Battle Lines", Senyaka and Pyro attack MRD Facility Beta in the Northwest to break out the mutants imprisoned there. He later battles Gambit in "Aces & Eights".


== References ==


== External links ==
UncannyXmen.net Character Profile on Senyaka
Amara Perera (Earth-616)