Shinobi Shaw

Shinobi Shaw, also known as a Black King of the Hellfire Club, is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is usually depicted as an adversary of the X-Men and their affiliated teams. Created by Chris Claremont, Jim Lee and Whilce Portacio, the character first appeared in X-Factor No. 67 (June 1991). He is the son of the former Black King Sebastian Shaw, and is a mutant with the ability to control the density of his own body.


== Fictional character biography ==
Shinobi is the son of Sebastian Shaw, the leader of the Hellfire Club. In his first appearance, Shaw is revealed to have engaged in a series of financial machinations to ruin his father, and after bankrupting him, he attempts to kill his father by using his powers to induce a heart attack in Sebastian, and then blowing up Sebastian's home. Shaw is able to briefly take control of the Hellfire Club, assuming the mantle of Black King. Eager to return the Inner Circle to its former glory, Shaw approaches Elizabeth Braddock and Warren Worthington, attempting to convince them to become a part of the Inner Circle. Both X-Men refuse, however. He also tried to enlist Storm as a member, but she also refused.Shaw was a member of the Upstarts, a group made up of Siena Blaze, Graydon Creed, Fabian Cortez, Trevor Fitzroy and probationary members Andreas and Andrea Strucker (of Fenris). They were manipulated by the Gamemaster and originally Selene, but the group quickly turns against her.  The group participates in an elaborate game, wherein they hunt and kill assigned targets for points. During one of these games, the Upstarts target the surviving members of the New Mutants and the Hellions, but are defeated by the combined forces of X-Force and the New Warriors.Later, Sebastian resurfaces alive and well and is able to take control of the Hellfire Club from his son. Shaw then worked with Spiral and Mindmeld as they experiment on Karma's siblings. However, his personal assassin Clear-Cut betrays Shaw and aids X-Force in defeating him.Shaw is confirmed as being one of a handful of mutants who retained their powers following the 2005 "Decimation" storyline. Sometime after that Shaw is killed by his father, and then resurrected by Selene. He is then sent with Harry Leland to kill his father and Donald Pierce. His ultimate fate is uncertain, as it is unknown if he was among the mutants teleported to Genosha by Blink to serve as a sacrifice to Selene or if he was among the mutants that managed to escape Utopia.
Shaw is revealed to be alive and his team of Upstarts kill the Nasty Boys, but are neutralized by the X-Men. Shaw mysteriously committed suicide by putting his hand into his brain before muttering that Emma Frost will not get him (as she had been manipulating the X-Men).In the 2019 relaunch of the X-Men comics, Shinobi was resurrected on Krakoa by The Five and placed under the care of his father, who appointed him the Black Bishop of the Hellfire Trading Company. Shinobi was unaware of the circumstances of his death, and his father told him that Emma Frost and Kate Pryde conspired to kill him.


== Powers and abilities ==
Shinobi Shaw is a mutant who can alter his body's density from diamond-hard to intangible. He usually uses it as a means of escape, but he can also use the intangibility to reach into an opponent's heart and induce a heart attack, without any adverse effects on Shaw himself.


== Other versions ==
Shinobi Shaw appeared in the Ultimate X-Men title, as Emma Frost's boyfriend. He is a member of the Academy of Tomorrow, in addition to the Hellfire Club. One of his operatives, Gerald Levine, is currently spying on the Xavier Institute and Marvel Girl, under his orders. When visiting the school, Shinobi and Gerald attacked Jean in an attempt to capture the Phoenix God. This failed, as the Phoenix fought back, and both Shinobi & Gerald were taken into police custody. Later, it is revealed that Emma's also a member of the Hellfire Club in secret.Later in the Ultimate Comics: Ultimates, Tony Stark and Jarvis are seen leaving a party for Shaw in Tokyo to respond to an emergency by Nick Fury.


== Other media ==
Shaw and others were originally planned to appear in X-Men: Dark Phoenix with a comics-accurate lineup consisting of himself, Freidrich Von Roehm, the Strucker Twins, Harry Leland, a returning Emma Frost and the Red Lotus Gang though they were cut from the film.


== References ==


== External links ==
Shinobi Shaw at the Marvel Universe wiki
Shinobi Shaw at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original)
Marvel Directory: Shinobi Shaw
UncannyXmen.net Character Profile on Shinobi Shaw