
Smart Alec (Alexander "Alec" Thorne) is a fictional mutant in Marvel Comics, and a member of Alpha Flight. He first appeared in Alpha Flight #1 (August 1983) and was created by John Byrne. He was unidentified in his first appearance, and was not named until Alpha Flight #8.
The character subsequently appears in Alpha Flight vol. 1 #7 (February 1984), #11–13 (June–August 1984), and Alpha Flight Special (1992) in a flashback story.
Alec Thorne was born in London, England. As a mutant, he was contacted by James Hudson to be one of the first members to join Department H. Alec was also one of the first recruits to join The Flight, a precursor to Alpha Flight. In their first mission, they stopped the terrorist known as Egghead from launching a thermonuclear missile at the United States. Later, after Hudson divided the team into three smaller groups, Thorne (as Smart Alec) began training in Gamma Flight.Some time after Gamma Flight was disbanded, its members were contacted by Jerry Jaxon to join Omega Flight in his bid for vengeance against Hudson. During the fight between Omega Flight and Alpha Flight, Smart Alec was defeated when he looked in Shaman's magical medicine bag; the resulting mental shock shut down his mind. Shaman shrank him down to miniature size and placed him in the bag, until a way could be found to restore his mind.Snowbird was later forced to kill Sasquatch to vanquish the Great Beast, Tanaraq, who co-inhabited his body. His mind was eventually transferred into Box's robot body. Langkowski's mind eventually entered Thorne's tiny body in an attempt to return to the human world. Thorne's body was finally killed when Langkowski merged his mind into the Box robot to defeat Pestilence, whose freed mind had inhabited the body of Snowbird (who was in the form of Sasquatch at the time), before Langkowski took over the Sasquatch body.Thorne invented and wore an encephala-helmet, which was used to increase his already super-genius intelligence level and boost his levels of perception (such as seeing across more than the mere visible light spectrum).
Smart Alec appears as part of the "Omega Flight" entry in the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe Deluxe Edition #9.


=== Other versions of Smart Alec ===
Smart Alec appears in What If? #62 (June 1994) titled "What If... Wolverine Battled Weapon X?" He is shown as a member of The Flight before being killed by Guy Desjardins (that reality's version of Weapon X).


