Enforcers (comics)

The Enforcers are a fictional team of villains appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, usually as adversaries of the superheroes Spider-Man and Daredevil. The original Enforcers consisted of Montana (Jackson W. Brice), the Ox (Raymond Bloch), and Fancy Dan (Daniel Brito).


== Publication history ==
Created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Steve Ditko, the team's first appearance was in The Amazing Spider-Man #10 (March 1964).The Enforcers appear often in the early issues of The Amazing Spider-Man, debuting in #10, and returning in #14 and #18–19, in the latter two issues teaming with the supervillain the Sandman. The team would go on to appear in Daredevil #356–357, and Dazzler #7–8, and fight Spider-Man again in Marvel Team-Up #39–40 and #138, The Spectacular Spider-Man #19–20, Spider-Man (1990s series) #94–95, Spider-Man (vol. 2) #28, and elsewhere.


== Fictional team biography ==
The Enforcers are a group of hired assassins and extortionists, each with an expertise in a different unique area of combat, whose goal it is to aid various employers in the takeover of New York City's criminal gangs. In their first appearance, the Enforcers aided the Big Man (Frederick Foswell) in his attempt to gain control of New York City's criminal gangs. They clashed with the superhero Spider-Man for the first time, and are defeated by him. They were subsequently employed by corrupt industrialist Norman Osborn, hired them to shut down Malone's Flophouse in a bid to gain the land. However, then-amnesiac Malone resident Namor the Sub-Mariner thwarted them, later destroying Osborn's construction equipment. They next aided the Green Goblin in his first unsuccessful attempt to eliminate Spider-Man, but were again defeated and jailed. Soon after that, they joined forces with the Sandman to subdue the Human Torch at a point where it was believed Spider-Man had become a coward, but are defeated by the combined might of Spider-Man and the Human Torch.The Enforcers clash repeatedly with Spider-Man and occasionally other heroes such as Daredevil. Foswell is eventually unmasked, but later reforms and is killed. After the Ox, later, also appears to have been killed, Montana and Fancy Dan team with a new Big Man, as well as with the Sandman and a new Crime Master, Nick Lewis, Jr. son of the original. During a battle in which the team is defeated by Spider-Man, the Human Torch, and the Sons of the Tiger, Crime Master shoots the new Big Man, learning belatedly that this "Big Man" was, in fact, a woman — Janice Foswell, daughter of the original and the younger Lewis' romantic interest.The Enforcers were hired by Lightmaster, who introduced a new Ox, Raymond Bloch's twin brother Ronald Bloch, to the team. The Enforcers are once again defeated by Spider-Man. They later battle the mutant superheroine Dazzler.The Enforcers return with new members Snake Marston, a master contortionist and Hammer Harrison, a boxer who wears steel hammers over his hands. The Enforcers come under the employ of the Kingpin, but were defeated by Spider-Man and the then-reformed Sandman. This lineup appears only once more, to fight Daredevil.The original Ox (Raymond Bloch) returns, revived by the Kingpin. It is unclear whether it is Raymond or Ronald Bloch who appears with Montana and Fancy Dan in subsequent battles with Spider-Man and the She-Hulk.During the events known as the superhero Civil War, either Raymond or Ronald Bloch and Snake Marston are recruited into the Thunderbolts, a team of reformed villains.Later, they came back together to work for Mister Fear, which pitted them directly against Daredevil. After Mister Fear's arrest, the Enforcers are taken in to work for the Hood's crime organization.Following the events of the storyline "Spider-Man: Brand New Day", the Enforcers are patrons at the Bar with No Name. They take bets with a person calling himself "the Bookie", over whether Spider-Man will show up to battle "Basher", an unknown villain who claimed to have fought Spider-Man. Spider-Man shows up, but is revealed to be Screwball in disguise when the real one shows up at the scene of the fight. The Enforcers decide to get revenge on the Bookie, capturing him. The Bookie's father calls Spider-Man for assistance, and he agrees to help. Spider-Man defeats Fancy Dan and Montana, and saves the Ox from being flattened by a falling roller coaster. Grateful for the save, the Ox agrees to come along quietly.During the "Origin of the Species"' storyline, Spider-Man goes against the villains after Menace's infant was stolen from him by the Chameleon. The Enforcers were not actually part of this group, where they quoted "we're the Enforcers, not the Kidnappers". They got caught in the crossfire anyway, when Sandman tries to recruit them to join up with him.Montana then started working for the Kingpin. During a fight which resulted in the Kingpin's office crumbling, the Hobgoblin lets him fall to his death in order to take his place as Fisk's right-hand man.The Enforcers (Fancy Dan, the Ox, Snake Marston, and Hammer Harrison) are reassembled by the fourth Crime Master, who convinces them and the Black Cat to assist him with breaking Hammerhead and Tombstone out of Ryker's Island. The attempted breakout is prevented by Spider-Man and the Wraith, and the Crime Master is revealed to be an impostor who Mister Negative had instructed to assassinate Hammerhead and Tombstone.


== Membership ==


=== Original members ===
The group originally consisted of:

Fancy Dan - A diminutive martial artist. Daniel Brito was born in Brooklyn, New York. He has great proficiency with judo, karate, and fancy footwork.
The Ox I - Raymond Bloch is a brutish strongman and the twin brother of Ronald Bloch.
Montana - Jackson W. Brice is an expert lasso-wielder.


=== Later members ===
These members were later additions to the group. They consisted of:

The Ox II - Ronald Bloch is a brutish strongman and the twin brother of Raymond Bloch. He became the second Ox after the apparent death of the original Ox. When his brother Raymond came back from the dead and rejoined the group, Ronald left.
Snake Marston - Sylvester "Snake" Marston is an expert contortionist.
Hammer Harrison - Willard "Hammer" Harrison is an expert boxer who wore two diamond-hard steel hammers on his hands.


== Other versions ==


=== Earth X ===
In the Earth X reality, the Enforces consisted of Fancy Dan, the Ox, and Montana, with the Vulture as a later addition. They would be hired by President Norman Osborn to act as his bodyguards. However, the Enforcers would fail in this task when the Skull arrived in New York to take over the United States. Like all who encounter the Skull, the Enforcers would be put under his control and Norman Osborn would be murdered. The Enforcers' fate following the Skull's death remain unrevealed.


=== Marvel Noir ===
In Spider-Man Noir, the Enforcers are the muscle working for mob boss Norman Osborn, also known as the Goblin. Like the rest of the Goblin's goons (Kraven and Adrian Toomes), they are former carnies.


=== MC2 ===
Fancy Dan makes a cameo appearance in an issue of The Amazing Spider-Girl as the owner of a company called Brito Imports and the leader of the Brooklyn gangs.The Enforcers appear when Mayday/Spider-Girl ended up within the mind of her father, observing his first encounter with the original Green Goblin.


=== Ultimate Marvel ===
In the alternate universe Ultimate Marvel continuity, the Enforcers were re-imagined as hit men for the Kingpin, and pitted against Spider-Man. The following changes took place:

Frederick Foswell was called Mr. Big and was not associated with the Daily Bugle - but videotapes of his untimely murder by the Kingpin were sent to Ben Urich and used for a Daily Bugle exclusive.
"Fancy Dan" was re-imagined as a young gunslinger and was called Dan Crenshaw.
"The Ox" was re-imagined as a Black Dominican called Bruno Sanchez.
"Montana" had the civil name Montana Bale and used a whip instead of a lasso (although he often used it to strangle Spider-Man like a lasso).After losing three times to Spider-Man, along with unofficial member Electro, the Enforcers supposedly disbanded.Much later, they came back together to work for Hammerhead. This pitted them directly against their former employer.


== In other media ==


=== Television ===
In the 1967 Spider-Man cartoon's episode "Blueprint For Crime", the Ox and Montana, here known as "Cowboy", were employed by a villain called the Plotter to steal missile blueprints.
The Enforcers appear in The Spectacular Spider-Man, with Fancy Dan voiced by Phil LaMarr, the Ox voiced by Clancy Brown and later by Danny Trejo, and Montana voiced by Jeff Bennett. This incarnation of the Enforcers utilize modern weaponry, suits, and equipment. Montana serves as the leader and strategist, the Ox as the strongman, and Fancy Dan as a martial artist. They debut in the pilot episode, "Survival of the Fittest", having been hired by the crime boss Tombstone via his second Hammerhead to kill Spider-Man, but Fancy Dan and the Ox are captured while Montana successfully escapes. Montana returned in the episode "Market Forces" as the series' version of the Shocker, though he was defeated and captured as well. In "Group Therapy", the Enforcers were broken out of prison, though Montana joined the Sinister Six to kill Spider-Man alongside five of his previous enemies, only to be defeated once more. Montana rejoined the Enforcers in "Probable Cause", after Fancy Dan and the Ox received powered suits from the Tinkerer so they could better succeed in a mission for Tombstone. Dubbing themselves the New Enforcers, they nearly succeeded in both the mission and defeating Spider-Man, but were secretly sabotaged by Hammerhead, who sought to usurp Tombstone; leading to their arrest. As of "Opening Night", the Enforcers were remanded to the Vault. The Green Goblin released all the prisoners to kill Spider-Man, but they were all recaptured after Walter Hardy released sleeping gas into the prison.
The Enforcers appear in the Ultimate Spider-Man episode "Nightmare on Christmas", with Fancy Dan voiced by Steven Weber, the Ox voiced by Mark Hamill, and Montana voiced by Troy Baker. In a dream sequence that Nightmare created, Spider-Man re-enacts his first fight with the Enforcers and prevails.


=== Video games ===
In earlier plans for the Spider-Man 3 video game, the Enforcers were planned to appear as gang leaders for the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions, but were cut before the first beta was made.
The Enforcers appear in the video game Marvel Heroes. They kidnapped the superhero Speedball and almost killed him. However, they are caught in the act by Jean DeWolff, who kills them all. The Kingpin later takes advantage of this.


== Footnotes ==


== References ==
Enforcers at Marvel.com
Marvel Directory: Enforcers
Grand Comics Database