
Steppin' Razor is an enemy of Blade in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Ian Edginton and Douglas H. Wheatley, first appeared in Blade: The Vampire Hunter #4 (October 1994).
Steppin' Razor, a vampire and an ex-crime lord of Jamaican descent, meets and recruits fellow vampire Carl Blake (also known as Night Terror) for a cause, the return of the vampire lord Varnae to the land of the living. Together with voodoo priestess Marie LaVeau, they lure Blade and his then mentor "Bible John" Carik to Los Angeles. Their plan is to capture Blade and use his body as the vessel for Varnae's spirit. The attempt fails and in the resulting fight, Night Terror's body becomes the vessel for Varnae instead. All three villains manage to escape in the chaos.


=== Steppin' Razor in other media ===
Steppin' Razor appeared in two episodes of Blade: The Series in 2006. He is the vampire leader of the Bad Bloods, the Detroit street gang the television version of Blade belonged to when he was younger. The character is played by Bokeem Woodbine.  The episodes Steppin' Razor appears in are "Bloodlines" and "Sacrifice". Blade gets kidnapped by the Bad Bloods. Blade wakes up chained inside a warehouse, in front of him is a man named Father Carlyle. Carlyle reveals that he has hired four men from Blade's past to kidnap him in an effort to bring peace between Blade and the vampire houses. At this point Steppin' Razor and the other Bad Bloods reveal themselves as the kidnappers and kill Carlyle.  Having him at his mercy, Steppin' Razor orders the torture of Blade. He reveals his plan to turn Blade over to the House of Cththon in exchange for membership in that house. This plan fails when a friend of Blade's finds and frees him. Blade then kills all of the Bad Bloods except Steppin' Razor who escapes. Blade tracks Steppin' Razor to Blade's boyhood home, and finds Steppin' Razor holding Blade's father hostage. The resulting fight ends when Blade's father runs Blade's sword through Steppin' Razor, reducing him to ash.


