
Striker is a super powered teen in the Marvel Comics universe.
The character, created by Christos Gage and Mike McKone, first appeared in Avengers Academy #1 (June 2010).
Within the context of the stories, Striker becomes a child actor at a young age and is molested by his manager. During an encounter, Striker's power of electrical manipulation manifests. Norman Osborn offers Striker whatever he wants in exchange for the use of his powers. Striker is recruited into the Avengers Academy along with five other students who have been affected by Osborn. He uses this opportunity to become famous again. He, Veil, and Hazmat then hunt down The Hood and video tape him screaming for mercy under electric torture. The video gets thousands of likes on YouTube, but at first Tigra is disgusted and actually requests the teen get expelled. Hank convinces her to allow the kids to remain, to which she grudgingly agrees, but secretly she relishes in watching the video of Hood screaming.  Later the team fights Korvac with the bodies and strength of their older selves. A mature Striker is killed by Korvac's blast, but is then reverted to his younger self by Korvac's estranged wife, Carina. Striker has an emotional breakdown after experiencing death. After a pep talk from Tigra, he is better able to control his powers and doesn't fear death. He also hatches a plan to save the students from Absorbing Man and Titaniana's attack on the Infinity Mansion. Later on, he reveals to Julie Power that he thinks he is gay. He soon publicly announces his sexual orientation in a press conference, showing Julie his fame hungry side.He was later scarred in the face by Jeremy Briggs when the Academy kids tried to stop him from releasing a superhuman cure. At the series' conclusion, he goes on a date with another teenage boy, even turning off his phone and ignoring his mother's urgings. The faculty then announce that Striker and the others have graduated the Academy. Striker later appears in Avengers Undercover, where he and Finesse visit Hazmat in the S.H.I.E.L.D. detention center after Hazmat kills Arcade.Striker later appeared as part of a new program established by Leonardo da Vinci to replace the defunct S.H.I.E.L.D. He is seen sparring with Reptil.


