Super-Patriot (Marvel Comics)

Super-Patriot is a name used by two supervillains and a superhero in the universe of Marvel Comics.  The first was an enemy of Nick Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D. The second was John Walker, who used the name Super-Patriot as a rival to Captain America. When Steve Rogers gave up the role of Captain America, Walker was tapped by the Commission on Superhuman Activities to replace Rogers; Walker later adopted the moniker U.S. Agent after Rogers' return.  The third person to use the alias was Mike Farrell, a former neighbor of Steve Rogers, who became Super-Patriot and allied himself with Dead Ringer.


== Fictional character biography ==
Super-Patriot - alias Patric List - was first seen staging a political rally in New York City, protesting the immigration policies of the United States.  His speech labeled American officials who allow foreigners on American soil as "traitors", and encouraged American citizens to overthrow the government.  Agents of the anti-terrorist organization S.H.I.E.L.D. came on the scene to arrest Super-Patriot for his refusal of a federal subpoena, and the conflict quickly devolved into a gun battle between the two, from which Super-Patriot ultimately escaped unscathed.Nick Fury, then a fugitive on the run from S.H.I.E.L.D., receives intelligence from a friend that Super-Patriot is planning a terrorist attack on the United Nations.  An undercover agent of the Super-Patriot's informs him that Fury is no threat; this agent later reveals himself to Fury as Jasper Sitwell, a S.H.I.E.L.D. mole.  Fury trades places with him and arrives at the United Nations Headquarters just as Super-Patriot is about to destroy it with his "Ultimate Weapon".  S.H.I.E.L.D. shows up, and a three-way battle erupts, during which the Super-Patriot attempts to flee, clutching an American flag to his body (believing that S.H.I.E.L.D. agents will not fire at the flag).  However, he accidentally trips over the fabric and falls to his death.Nick Fury removes the Super-Patriot's mask to reveal Nick Fury's own face underneath.  However, in later comics it is revealed that this was merely a hallucinatory vision induced by a "truth serum" S.H.I.E.L.D. had used on Fury with the intention of testing his loyalty.  The battle with Super-Patriot was apparently real, however, as Fury's colleague Dum Dum Dugan remembers it as well.


== References ==


== External links ==
Super-Patriot at the Appendix to the Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe