Bastards of Evil

The Bastards of Evil are a fictional team of supervillains appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. They debuted in the 2010 "Heroic Age" storyline, in the series Young Allies. Their name is a play that they are said to be the bastard children of evil supervillains.


== Publication history ==
The Bastards of Evil first appeared in Young Allies Vol. 2 #1 and were created by Sean McKeever and David Baldeon.


== Fictional team history ==
The Bastards of Evil are young supervillains who claim to be the disavowed children of some of the supervillains. They came together not only to rob a bank but to come up with plans to take over the world. The Bastards of Evil committed acts of terrorism and recorded it with floating robotic cameras. Warhead destroyed a part of Ohio which Gravity stopped, but Warhead escaped. The Bastards of Evil end up running afoul of the Young Allies. During the fight, Warhead exploded on Ground Zero (the former site of the World Trade Center) presumably killing himself and thousands of bystanders.The Bastards of Evil meet up with their mysterious benefactor. When Firestar and Gravity fight Electro, he ends up defeating them. He let them live so that they can spread the message that he doesn't endorse Aftershock and the Bastards of Evil's terrorism. He also says that they should look up how and when he got his powers on the internet and there no way a girl of Aftershock's age could have been conceived after he got his powers. It's impossible for him to be Aftershock's father.Aftershock informs the Bastards of Evil that they have orders from their superior to Araña and Nomad. When Firestar and Gravity arrive at the edge where Warhead exploded, they are ambushed by the Bastards of Evil. During the Young Allies' fight with the Bastards of Evil, the Young Allies end up meeting their leader who calls himself Superior and claims to be the son of the Leader.It is soon revealed during the battle that the other Bastards of Evil members were originally teenagers who were kidnapped by Superior, exposed to various forms of radiation, given personal narrative implants, and false memories of their forgotten childhood as the children of those supervillains. When Araña and Nomad are kidnapped, the Bastards of Evil plot to kill them on national television. When the Young Allies arrived and convinced the Bastards of Evil members to in-fight themselves, Aftershock remembers her true identity of Danielle Blunt and causes her to attack Singularity who remembers his true identity of Devin Touhy. Singularity turns on Superior while the other Bastards of Evil members question their true identities. This gave the Young Allies the opportunity to defeat them after Superior uses his telekinetic abilities to rip Singularity in half. Superior and the remaining Bastards of Evil were incarcerated at the Raft. While in his cell, Superior plans to find a way to escape incarceration, wipe the memories of the remaining Bastards of Evil, and create "new siblings" to serve him.During the "Fear Itself" storyline, Aftershock and Ember were seen escaping from the Raft after Juggernaut in the form of Kuurth: Breaker of Stone leveled it. Both were fighting against the students and teachers from the Avengers Academy alongside Icemaster, but were subdued by Jeremy Briggs.


== Members ==
Members include but are not limited to:

Superior - Supposed son of Leader.
Aftershock (Danielle Blunt) - Supposed daughter of Electro.
Ember (Jason) - Supposed son of Pyro.
Mortar (Liana Feeser) - Supposed daughter of Grey Gargoyle.
Singularity (Devin Touhy) - Supposed son of Graviton. Ripped in half by Superior's telekinetic abilities.
Warhead - Supposed son of Radioactive Man. Exploded on the site of Ground Zero.


== References ==


== External links ==

Bastards of Evil at Marvel Wiki
Bastards of Evil at Comic Vine