
Sway (Suzanne Chan) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appeared in X-Men: Deadly Genesis #3 as one of the "Missing X-Men". She was created by writer Ed Brubaker and artist Pete Woods.
Originally from Hong Kong, David and Emily Chan became naturalized citizens of the United States after living twenty years in California. They had a daughter named Suzanne, who, at 17 years old, wanted to attend Barnard College on the east coast of the United States and planned a trip to New York City to prove to her parents that she would be safe on her own after moving. During the trip, David and Emily were gunned down in a crossfire between gangs in Chinatown. Although standing a few feet from her parents, Suzanne was unscathed, which perplexed police detectives.
After the shooting, Suzanne entered a state of shock. She could only dwell on the fact that when the shooting started, she had somehow stopped the bullets in midair and was able to get herself out of the path of the bullets. In actuality she had stopped time around the bullets, effectively freezing them in place. Unfortunately, she was unable to do the same for her parents, and could only watch as the bullets tore into them.
The police placed the traumatized girl in a hospital for forty-eight-hour observation, during which she mostly slept and cried. When she was released, she was told that the police were looking into things, but they did not have any leads. Wandering the streets, she returned to the spot where her parents were killed. Suddenly, her mutant powers activated again and she was able to see past events in the area, namely the phantoms of herself and her parents. After witnessing the shooting for a second time, Suzanne followed the phantom car, carrying her parents’ murderers, throughout the city. She then realized that she somehow had control over the flow of time and she was making it replay itself for her.Suzanne followed the murderers to their front door and inside she could see them celebrating. She called the police, and when they arrived, the killers opened fire. Consciously using her power for the first time, she froze the bullets and the killers in time. After giving her statement to the police, the detective contacted Dr. Moira MacTaggert, who then offered Suzanne a chance to train in the use of her mutant abilities. She took the code-name Sway and went with MacTaggert. She was in the first team, along with Kid Vulcan, Darwin, and Petra to attempt to rescue the X-Men from Krakoa, but was sliced in half by the island's force. With the last of her power, she and the mortally wounded Petra combined their powers to save their remaining teammates from certain death.When the X-Men establish Krakoa as a mutant paradise, Sway was among the revived mutants living there, She, Petra, and Vulcan were residing in the Summer House.During the "Empyre" storyline, Sway and Petra have a drink with Vulcan at the Summer House on the Moon. After Vulcan defeated his Cotati attackers, Sway and Petra catch up to him.Sway demonstrated the ability to decelerate and probably stop or even accelerate time around her body, as well as a form of retrocognitive projection that allowed her to replay the recent pasts as short bursts of ghostly images. It's highly possible her powers revolve either around the manipulation of gravitation as means for spacetime curvature or the control of chronitons, much like Tempo, another time-manipulating mutant. By focusing carefully, Suzanne was able to slow down and stop objects entirely, enabling her to freeze projectiles in mid-air, immobilize her enemies, and various other effects. Apparently, Suzanne's training had honed her abilities to the point where she could target specific objects in her range or everything within a certain radius.


