Talos the Untamed

Talos the Untamed is a fictional alien appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Peter David and artist Gary Frank, the character debuted in The Incredible Hulk #418 (June 1994). The character is a well known member of the Skrulls due to not being able to shapeshift. He was a member of the United Front.
Ben Mendelsohn portrays Talos in the films Captain Marvel and Spider-Man: Far From Home (both 2019) set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.


== Publication history ==
The character was created by Peter David and Gary Frank and first appeared in The Incredible Hulk #418 (June 1994). He was introduced as a guest at Rick Jones's wedding, he and other villains being invited by Impossible Man as a prank. In the following issue it is revealed he can't shapeshift and that he was captured by the Kree in the Kree–Skrull War.He returned during the Annihilation event, mainly in the four issue tie-in Annihilation: Ronan (2006). He joined the United Front, alongside characters like Star-Lord, Nova and Gamora.He made his last appearances in the 2015 ongoing of Howard the Duck, he infiltrated Earth with an actual, physical human disguise using an alter ego he called "Jonathan Richards".


== Fictional character biography ==
Talos, considered a Mutant by his people, is a Skrull that was born without the ability to shape shift. He made up for it by becoming one of the most feared Skrulls on his planet earning the title Talos the Untamed due to his savage and sinister nature. However, after getting captured by the Kree, he refused to commit suicide in the hopes of gaining glory for his survival. Instead, he was ridiculed and renamed the more humiliating "Talos the Tamed."Talos soon found himself at the wedding of Rick Jones and Marlo Chandler, courtesy of the Impossible Man. He found himself confronted by the Hulk and tried to get him to fight him in an attempt to reclaim glory from his people. When the Hulk found out what he was up to, he ceased fighting him. Talos left in frustration, but the Skrulls found his attempt to battle him impressive.Talos was called to the planet Godthab Omega by Glorian where he ended up battling Devos the Devastator. They were both captured and imprisoned when the planet suddenly came under attack by the Annihilation Wave allowing the two to escape. Talos soon ran into Ronan the Accuser, whom he hated for being a Kree, but was forced to heed his warning about leaving the planet.He was once again humiliated, this time by his own people, when Queen Veranke refused to allow him to be a part of the Secret Invasion due to him not having the ability to shape shift. Though Chancellor Kal'Dul didn't lose the hope of Talos' possible participation.Talos became a member of the United Front to fight the Annihilation Wave.Talos next showed up at Howard the Duck's private investigations in make up and a beard as Jonathan Richards. He tasks Howard with finding a necklace that was stolen by the Black Cat. When Howard finally retrieves it, Talos abandons his disguise to reveal that the necklace contains the Abundant Gems, less powerful versions of the Infinity Gems that can still make one "marginally" powerful, which he plans to use to gain favor with the Skrulls again. He was defeated by Howard and his friend Tara Tam, and apprehended by the Fantastic Four.


== Powers and abilities ==
Unlike his Skrull brethren, Talos is incapable of shapeshifting and has been branded as having a genetic defect by his people. To make up for this, he has been granted superhuman strength and durability and can hold his own against the likes of the Hulk. He possesses a cybernetic eye after losing his real one in combat.


== In other media ==


=== Film ===
Ben Mendelsohn portrays Talos in the films set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe:
Talos first appears in the 2019 film Captain Marvel. Talos is the shape-shifting leader of the Skrull invasion of Earth, who is working undercover within S.H.I.E.L.D. as Nick Fury's boss. Mendelsohn described Talos' human persona as "buttoned up" and his natural Skrull persona as "more laid back, a bit tougher, [and] a little bit nastier." Mendelsohn elaborated, "The thing is, when you're Skrullin', there's a kind of take-no-prisoners vibe about it, which is more relaxed. [As a human] This guy’s got to follow protocol because it's S.H.I.E.L.D." When portraying Talos, Mendelsohn uses his native Australian accent, and an American accent when he is in his S.H.I.E.L.D. disguise, which Mendelsohn compared to that of American politician Donald Rumsfeld. Mendelsohn noted there was "a very lengthy discussion" regarding the accent for the Skrulls, adding "There's a certain kind of earthy correctness to an Australian delivery". It took Mendelson a "couple of hours" to have his makeup and prosthetics applied to portray Talos. Executive producer Johnathan Schwartz added that "it's sort of fun to show off both the Skrull's powers and Ben's range as an actor because he's very different in all of those parts." Polygon noted that one of the big motifs in the film is the way that war can corrupt people on every side of it, and that a lot of Talos' character arc has to do with this. Den of Geek! considered Ben Mendelsohn's portrayal of lead Skrull Talos a highlight of the film. Bustle considered that the film not following the comics precisely, allows Talos to become a far more fearful foe. Wired noted that the film turns General Talos into a character to be fought for, rather than fought against, allowing the film to show the universe through his eyes. This version does have the ability to shapeshift and leads a team of Skrulls, and has a wife named Soren (portrayed by Sharon Blynn) as well as a daughter. When Starforce arrives on the planet Torfa to look for a Kree scout named Soh-Larr, it turns out to be a trap where they make off with Vers. Using a mind-probing machine, Talos and his men enter Vers' memories until she recovers, breaks free, and flees to Earth. When he and his Skrulls arrive on Earth, Talos works undercover within S.H.I.E.L.D. posing as Nick Fury's boss Keller (also portrayed by Mendelsohn). Catching up to Carol Danvers and Nick Fury at Maria Rambeau's house, Talos arranges a parley and even recognizes Goose the Cat's true species which frightens him. He reveals to Carol, Nick, and Maria that the Skrulls are refugees who lost their homeworld after rejecting Kree supremacy. Talos soon becomes Carol and Fury's ally in taking down the Kree's various enforcers who threaten the Skrull refugees at Mar-Vell's space laboratory where his family are also residing. At the film's end, Talos and Danvers depart to find a new homeworld for his family and the rest of the Skrulls.
In the post-credits scene of Spider-Man: Far From Home, it was revealed that the "Nick Fury" and "Maria Hill" who appeared in that movie were actually Talos and his wife Soren, taking their places while the real Fury was in space with the rest of the Skrulls on an undisclosed mission. Talos briefs Fury on their mission and obtaining E.D.I.T.H., until Fury hangs up half-way through the call.


=== Video games ===
Talos is a playable 4-star character in Marvel Puzzle Quest. He appears as part of the Captain Marvel tie-in.


== References ==


== External links ==
Talos the Untamed on the Marvel Wiki
Talos the Tamer at The Appendix to the Handbook of the Marvel Universe
Talos at Marvel Cinematic Universe Wiki