
Temugin is the son of Iron Man villain the Mandarin. Created by Ryan Odagawa and Mike Grell, he first appeared in Iron Man (volume 3) #53 (June 2002). The character is named after Genghis Khan, his in-universe ancestor.
As an infant, Temugin was delivered to a monastery in the Himalayas by his father. Confident the monks would educate the boy, the Mandarin cut off almost all communication with his son, which left Temugin with abandonment issues.He appears in the miniseries Iron Man: Enter the Mandarin, where the Mandarin uses his mind control ring to force Temugin to kill Tony Stark. Temugin later shoots Stark in the chest, and deduces that he is Iron Man when the suit's chestplate stops the bullet. Temugin escapes and returns to the monastery, and a disappointed Mandarin wipes his mind of the incident.After the Mandarin's death in a battle against Iron Man, Temugin receives his father's ten rings of power, and discovers that for honor's sake he must kill Iron Man so his father's spirit can find peace. Luring Iron Man to his father's fortress, Temugin proves more than a match for Iron Man's mechanically enhanced strength. Before he could kill the hero, another enemy of the Mandarin attacks and the fortress erupts into flames.Temugin later appears in MODOK's 11 #4, wherein he has been contacted by the double-crossing Spot, who promptly hands over the weapon that MODOK had been planning to steal. In this appearance, Temugin speaks of the Mandarin as "my late father" and bears the Rings, one of which he uses to imprison Spot in another dimension with nothing but money. In the following issue, the Puma tears off at least one of his hands. However, it is possible that he retained at least half of the rings, as Nightshade who used the rings on his lost hand, was not seen with them at the end of the story.However, much later he is seen among the Agents of Atlas, appointed as a second in command, and possible replacement, for Jimmy Woo, current head figure for the Atlas Foundation. Now sporting a bulky prosthetic, he initially comes into conflict with Jimmy Woo over what he perceives as cowardly behavior and pointlessly complicated planning on Woo's part. The two gradually become friends over the course of several battles, most notably versus Jade Claw.Sasha Hammer is his paternal half-sister.


=== Temugin in other media ===
Temugin (also known as Gene Khan) appears as the Mandarin in Iron Man: Armored Adventures voiced by Vincent Tong. The last descendant of the first Mandarin, he is searching for his rings so he can gain ultimate power.


