
Thane is the illegitimate child of Thanos and an unnamed Inhuman woman. He was created by Jonathan Hickman and Mike Deodato and first appeared in New Avengers Vol. 3 #10.
During the Infinity storyline, Thanos begins invading Attilan in an attempt to find and kill his son. Upon undergoing Terrigenesis, Thane develops powers of instant death to those near him and the ability to encase others in amber, but he cannot control these powers and inadvertently kills everyone in his hometown. He is given a special suit by Ebony Maw that allows him to properly control and channel his powers, and he begins to rebel against his father. Thane is easily manipulated, having been used by villains such as J'son and Death in pursuit of their own goals. He is briefly empowered by both The Black Vortex and the Phoenix Force, but is later stripped of all his powers and trapped by Thanos in the God Quarry.

In other mediaThane has appeared in Marvel Avengers Academy.
Thane appears in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 3: The Black Order, voiced by Robbie Daymond. He started out as a supporting ally prior to unwillingly assisting his father in searching for the Infinity Stones, first appearing at Attilan before joining the heroes, then becoming the final antagonist when the Infinity Stones completely corrupt him. Thane gives himself and the Infinity Stones over to the Black Order to ensure the heroes' safety. However, the Black Order has an idea by sending the heroes to be doomed by Hela and Surtur before waging war with Nova Corps at Knowhere. The heroes and the Black Order prepare to clash, but are stopped by Thane using the Time Stone. Thane wanted both heroes and Black Order allied together alongside him to defeat Thanos, but Thane is distracted trying to choose a side, and remembering Captain America's word that he is not like Thanos. Thanos attacks Thane from behind and confirms to his son that he won't be like him, thus places the Stones in his Infinity Gauntlet, transporting everyone to his throne for a final battle. By the time the heroes defeated Thanos, Thane, now completely corrupted by the Infinity Stones’ influence takes the Infinity Gauntlet from him, and uses the stones’ power to don the full armored Infinity Armor while planning to kill his father to prove his superiority and the heroes if they stand in his way. Thane brought the heroes and Thanos with him into the Heart of Infinity, where the Infinity Stones were forged at the center of the universe. The heroes aid Thanos in stopping the out-of-control Thane. Thanos confirms that the power of the Infinity Armor is too great for any mortal being, even Thanos himself, the heroes beg Thanos to save him and Thanos eventually acknowledges Thane as his son and proceeds to pull the Infinity Gauntlet from Thane's hand, causing the two to disappear and leaving the heroes and the Infinity Stones behind upon returning to Thanos’ throne. Unfortunately, the final suicidal clash between him and Thanos somehow awakened a dangerous entity that will invade the universe, alerting both Doctor Doom and Fantastic Four's Mister Fantastic, causing the alliance band back together with Doom and the Fantastic Four on their side.


