
Thori was created by Kieron Gillen and Doug Braithwaite and first appeared in Journey into Mystery #632.
When Garm and Hel-Wolf were left together by Kid Loki, they conceived seven Hel pups, with one of them being Thori. While his siblings had inherited their mother's loyal nature, Thori on the other hand had inherited his father's vicious nature. Garm gave the pups to Loki as a gift, since she didn't have time to raise them. However, the All-Mothers, consisting of Freyja, Gaea and Idunn, order Loki to find another home for the pups, so Loki along with Leah left six of the pups with Mephisto, Gaea, Warlock, New Mutants, Heimdall, Tyr and an Earth animal shelter, leaving Thori the last one. Loki was unable to find a home for the pup, so the All-Mothers ordered him to destroy the pup, since he was beyond salvation. But Loki seeing a bit of himself in the pup, decided to keep him as his pet and named him Thori after his brother Thor.
When Daimon Hellstrom had joined Loki to battle Nightmare, Thori immediately grew fond of Daimon and asked him to be his new master. After the Disir attacked, Thori helped Thor, Loki and the Warriors Three to go to Sigurd and the New Mutants. When Loki was trapped in Muspelheim, Thor tried to lead Hel-Wolf away from Loki, but Thori betrayed them and directed his father to Loki. After the events of Everything Burns storyline, where the Aesir battled the Vanir, Thori remained with his father.When Angela came to Hel in order to get the soul her love, Sera, and control of Hel, Thori aided Hela, Hel-Wolf and the Disir in the battle, however, he got trapped by Sera. After Angela was successful in the battle, she resurrected Sera and along with Leah, an alternate version of Hela, brought Thori to Brooklyn. After the defeat of the Faustian Queen, an alternate version of Angela, Leah took Thori and left New York.At some point, Thori was captured by the Collector as part of his museum. When Odinson tried to retrieve the Ultimate Thor's Mjolnir, he came across Thori who managed to escape alongside Odinson and stayed at his side afterwards.


