

Tick-Tock is a fictional mutant created by Ann Nocenti and Brian Postman. He first appeared in Spider-Woman #50, where he helps the Locksmith capture and imprison various San Francisco-based superheroes and supervillains, including Spider-Woman. He uses his precognitive abilities to help prevent break-outs, anticipating the prisoners' attempts before they could happen, but does not foresee that when Spider-Woman breaks out, she would change costumes with the Gypsy Moth. Placing the two women in each other's cells, Spider-Woman is able to escape and free the others, and the Locksmith and Tick-Tock were sent to prison.Tick-Tock later joins the Shroud's Night Shift, and assisted in their assault upon the Power Broker alongside Captain America (pretending to be hypnotized by Dansen Macabre). Tick-Tock was instrumental in getting them past the guards at the gate by predicting their movements. Tick-Tock helped Captain America and the Shroud guard the prisoners they took inside the Power Broker's mansion, and ultimately escaped with the Night Shift, evading the authorities.Later, Tick-Tock joined the Night Shift to observe the Moon Knight's battle with the Shroud, as the Shroud tested him to serve as his replacement in the Night Shift.After Digger was arrested by the Mockingbird, Tick-Tock joined the Night Shift in attacking the Avengers Compound, unaware that the Mockingbird was no longer an Avenger. Tick-Tock helped the Brothers Grimm defeat the Vision by predicting when he would become solid, but the team was finally defeated by the Avengers. They were then rescued by the Shroud.When the Hangman assumed control of the Night Shift, he encouraged each member to join him in a campaign of terror against Hollywood, pointing to their backgrounds for reasons why they should hate Hollywood. He noted that Tick-Tock had wanted to be a timer in an animation studio once. Tick-Tock joined the Night Shift in receiving new power from Satannish, but lost a portion of their souls as a result. He accompanied the Night Shift as they captured Hawkeye, the second Spider-Woman, and the U.S. Agent, then attempted to offer their souls to Satannish. Iron Man and the Living Lightning followed Digger to the Tower of Shadows, and saved their teammates from the Night Shift. Tick-Tock attempted to defeat them with his new powers, slowing the Avengers down, but Spider-Woman was outside his path, and knocked him out from behind. They were teleported away from the Avengers by Dansen Macabre. Tick-Tock then joined the Night Shift in an attack on Wonder Man, but found that Wonder Man was immune to his powers, possibly because of his ionic energies. After capturing Wonder Man, they were convinced by him to allow him to join them in their campaign against Hollywood by making their own film.When the U.S. Agent assumed the part Wonder Man had been playing in "The Demon That Devoured Hollywood", the Night Shift attacked him, and Tick-Tock slowed him down long enough for the Misfit, Digger and the Hangman to knock him out. Realizing that Wonder Man intended to betray them, they also brought Wonder Man down. As the Night Shift continued with their film project, the Avengers attacked them, all on film. The Night Shift nearly defeated them, but then learned from Dr. Strange that they had lost part of their souls to Satannish. They then turned on the Hangman, and helped the Avengers and Doctor Strange drive Satannish back to his own realm.Tick-Tock was with the Night Shift at the time when they are hired by the crime lord Snapdragon on Count Nefaria's behalf to capture Moon Knight. When the Moon Knight refused Tick-Tock's offer to accompany them, the Night Shift attacked, where Tick-Tock accidentally hit the Tatterdemalion when trying to shoot Maya Lopez. After Echo knocked out Digger, she used a shovel to stab Tick-Tock. Moon Knight and Echo defeated the Night Shift, who are then arrested by the police. As Tick-Tock was being interrogated by the LAPD's Detective Hall, Count Nefaria's lawyer showed up and ended the interrogation. After Count Nefaria's lawyer states that the Night Shift are victims of a beating from vigilantes, the Night Shift are released from police custody. When Tick-Tock and the rest of the Night Shift are brought before Snapdragon and Count Nefaria, the two of them wanted to discuss with them why they failed their mission, where Count Nefaria insulted them for their incompetence. Before the Night Shift could answer, Count Nefaria used his ionic energy blasts to incinerate them, as he tells Snapdragon to aim a little higher the next time she asks for outside help.Tick-Tock can perceive various possible futures diverging within the next 60 seconds. The sharper his focus on a particular future event, the more likely it is to occur. He uses a pocket watch to focus his power.
After being empowered by Satannish, Tick-Tock could also control the flow of time, causing others to freeze in place, while he and his associates moved normally.


