
Tom Thumb (Thomas Thompson) is a member of the superhero team the Squadron Supreme. Created by Roy Thomas and John Buscema, he first appeared in Avengers #85. He is a dwarf scientist and inventor. He designed the Squadron's headquarters and frequently created advanced devices such as a Behavior Modifying Machine that could be used on criminals to change their ways, and a force field belt that protected its wearer.The character first appears when several members of the Avengers end up in the Squadron Supreme's universe and battle them. The Squadron later are manipulated by the Serpent Cartel, and the team travels to the mainstream Marvel Universe to extend the Cartel's power. They battle the Avengers once more, returning to their own universe in the process, but eventually realize that the Cartel is evil and renounce them.Alongside the other Squadron members, Thumb is mind-controlled by the Over-Mind and is used in the entity's conquest of the Squadron's Earth. The team is freed by the Defenders, and together they battle and defeat the Over-Mind and Null, the Living Darkness.To help restore the world after the chaos brought upon it by the Over-Mind's conquest, the Squadron resolves to take control of the planet, and the members reveal their secret identities to the world. Fellow Squadron member Nuke asks Thumb to find a cure for his parents' cancer, but Tom Thumb fails. Thumb discovers that he has also developed terminal cancer. Tom Thumb then completed the Behavior Modification Machine. He was captured by the Institute of Evil, and voted to expel the Golden Archer from the Squadron. Tom Thumb travels to the future to steal a universal cure for disease, but he discovers it is ineffective to cure his cancer. Thumb ultimately dies at the team's headquarters in Squadron City and was placed in the Hibernaculum, a form of suspended animation that he invented to preserve the bodies of diseased or recently deceased persons until a remedy could be found for them.Tom Thumb has an extraordinary genius level of intellect, but no superhuman powers. He is an expert and innovator in a wide range of scientific and technological fields, including computer science, medicine, psychology, force field technology, and spacecraft design. He possesses total recall and great physical dexterity. He is highly skilled at manipulating various weaponry of his own design.  He possesses doctorate degrees in mathematics, physics, and electrical engineering. Tom Thumb has access to a variety of technologies that he has designed. He used a one-man flying vehicle that was equipped with various advanced weaponry, including guns firing concussive energy blasts. His inventions included A.I.D.A. (Artificially Intelligent Data Analyzer), a highly advanced computer with a human-like personality and sentience; the Behavior Modification Machine, which could alter the personalities and thinking processes of human powers; the Hibernaculum, a means of storing a human body in suspended animation; and the Transtemporal Somnaprojector, a means of time travel. He also invented and wore a personal force field belt, which projected a protective field of energy about the wearer that could even deflect bullets.


=== Supreme Power versions ===

In Supreme Power, Tom Thumb is one of a number of convicts who volunteered to act as test subjects for a military experiment, which caused him to shrink to less than one inch high. He joins the government's Squadron Supreme program, and he enters counseling to deal with the trauma of being trapped in a capsule during one mission. This version of the character apparently died along with the rest of his universe when it collided with another reality.


