
Ultimus (Ard-Con) was created by Gerry Conway and John Buscema, making his debut in Thor #209 as Demon Druid, while he made his debut as Ultimus in Wonder Man #7.
The Kree known as Ard-Con was a member of the Kree Eternal sub-race created by the Celestials. He with the other Kree Eternals travelled through space, eventually, coming across Earth 4000 years ago. The Celts of Earth mistook the Kree Eternals as deities and soon all Kree Eternals left Earth except Ard-Con who stayed on Earth for a millennium, but was then imprisoned by the Deviant, Tantalus. He also encountered Odin once, claiming that his name brought back memories, but also thought that Odin had died. He was then accidentally freed by Thor when the latter used mjolnir to turn into Donald Blake. Once free, he started wreaking havoc across the streets and knocked Thor unconscious. He was then apprehended by the British Army and Thor again, but stopped fighting when Thor realised that Ard-Con was trying to reach a portal at Stonehenge in order to depart Earth. After that, Ard-Con successfully departed Earth.Ard-Con was unable to find his people so returned to Earth thanks to a portal created by two tourists and the hero Meggan, who were under the influence of the Eternal. Shadowcat intervened and freed Meggan along with tourists and also allowing Rachel Summers getting some knowledge about his people. Ard-Con then broke into Darkmoor Nuclear Research Facility where he recreated a nuclear facsimile in order to use it at the Stonehenge and finally reunite with his people. However, the Excalibur intervened and stopped Captain Britain from fighting Ard-Con, while Kitty opened a portal to Ard-Con's people and apologized to him. This proved to be successful, however, upon arriving to his home, he was approached by the Supreme Intelligence who informed Ard-Con that he was the last surviving Kree Eternal. Then Ultimus, under the order of the Supremor, joined the Starforce.He, along with rest of the team, were sent to capture the Avengers, since they had infiltrated Kree-Lar. They were successful in capturing the Avengers, however, the current rulers of the Kree, Ael-Dan and Dar-Benn, decided to execute both teams by locking them into a force field. Thankfully, Deathbird killed the emperors, which allowed the Supreme Intelligence to regain control of the Kree Empire. He then sent the team against the Shi'ar as a retaliation against his attempted assassination by the Shi'ar Empire. They teleported into the Shi'ar palace with Ultimus dispatching Earthquake and attacking Lilandra, however, Starfox distracted Ultimus long enough for Lilandra to strike Ultimus back. After being captured, they were sentenced to death by the Shi'ar, but things became complicated as it was revealed that the Shi'ar counselor Araki was replaced by a Skrull. Ultimus was released by Lilandra under her order to report about the Skrulls' plans. The Starforce was then integrated within the Imperial Guards and under the orders of Deathbird they attacked Quasar with his allies for their intrusion in Shi'ar space. After the Kree regained their autonomy, all of the Starforce members became defectors.
Other versionsIn What If? Avengers lost Kree-Shi'ar war, this version of Ultimus fought against the Avengers and the Imperial Guards, but was killed by the Imperial Guard, Flashire.
In other mediaUltimus is a major villain in Marvel Strike Force.


