
The Unspoken is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is the cousin of Blackagar Boltagon (Black Bolt), and was once the king of all Inhumans before he was forced into exile. The Unspoken first appeared in Mighty Avengers #27 and was created by Dan Slott, Khoi Pham, and Christos N. Gage.
Originally, the Unspoken was a just ruler to the Inhumans. However, fearful that it would corrupt his people, he decided to steal the Slave Engine, his people's greatest weapon, along with the Xerogen Crystals it utilized and buried them somewhere in Tibet. After refusing to reveal the Slave Engine's location, he was then challenged to a duel by the heir to the throne, a young Blackagar Boltagon. Despite being by far the strongest of the Inhumans, moving the Slave Engine had weakened the King which led to his defeat at the hands of Blackagar and his friends. His final stipulation was that his deeds be remembered, but Black Bolt had a crueler fate in mind: the King, his deeds, and the Slave Engine itself, were written out of Inhuman history. From that day on, he would be remembered only as a bogeyman to frighten small children, his name forevermore "unspoken". 
He was later recovered by the Alpha Primitives, who cared for their fallen king. Realizing his mistake, the Unspoken plotted to return and reclaim his throne, cultivating the Xerogen Crystals, only for Attilan to rise into the sky. Cheated of his redemption and later learning of the silent war between the Inhumans and United States of America, the Unspoken decided to change his plans and unearth the Slave Engine using it to conquer Earth, by transforming all humans on the planet into Alpha Primitives. In the 21st century, the Unspoken was detected in Tibet. G.R.A.M.P.A. interpreted this as a possible alliance between communist China and the Inhumans but were unable to identify the Unspoken. Therefore, they called in Quicksilver, an expert on the Inhumans, and U.S. Agent. The former recognized the Unspoken and advised that they call all the Avengers teams (consisting of the Mighty Avengers, the New Avengers, the Young Avengers, the Avengers Resistance, and even the Dark Avengers) to stop him.Unfortunately, even the joint forces of the New Avengers, Avengers Resistance and Mighty Avengers failed to stem the tide. Most of their force were mutated by the Xerogen Mists, before the Wasp arrived. They both dueled each other at massive sizes. Wasp called him pathetic, for wallowing in his own misery for his mistakes and not learning to move on. The Unspoken was defeated when the chronal ray on board the Slave Engine that accelerated the growth of the Xerogen crystals was used against him, aging him to the point where he was too weak to carry on fighting. The heroes then permitted the Alpha Primitives to allow the Unspoken to return to his cave to live out the rest of his days.During the Inhumanity storyline, the Unspoken resurfaced and arrived at New Attilan. Due to Black Bolt missing at the time, the Unspoken proposed to Medusa and tried to cover for his missing brother. Medusa refused the Unspoken's offer and had him incarcerated in the dungeon. The Unspoken soon broke free from his imprisonment and headed to New Attilan's catacombs. It is here that the Unspoken starts looking for Terrigen Crystals in order to replenish his powers. Despite the intervention of Medusa and Gorgon, the Unspoken defeated them and reclaimed the throne. The newly transformed Inhumans later helped the Inhuman Royal Family to fight the Unspoken managing to steal the Terrigen Crystals from him. Upon his defeat and being deprived of the Terrigen Crystals, the Unspoken was reimprisoned in the dungeon.The Unspoken is the living embodiment of Terrigenesis itself. He is capable of altering his form in any way he desires, and can give himself a wide number of abilities, such as mass manipulation and energy construct manifestation. To maintain his powers, he needs to absorb Terrigen Crystals.


