
Vivian "Viv" Vision is an android in Marvel Comics. She was created by Tom King and Gabriel Hernandez Walta and first appeared in Vision Vol. 3 #1 (January 2016).Viv, along with her brother Vin, was created by Vision, using a combination of his and his wife Virginia's brainwaves, as part of an attempt to create a family. The siblings are sent to Alexander Hamilton High School, but assigned different schedules. Both children are attacked by Eric Williams (Grim Reaper), with Viv more seriously damaged than her brother. Vision repairs her with the help of Tony Stark.When Viv learns that her mother killed a classmate she befriended, she becomes distraught and begins to resent her mother. When both her brother and mother die, she and Vision try to carry on with their family life.She joins the teen superhero team the Champions, alongside Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan), Spider-Man (Miles Morales), Nova (Sam Alexander), Hulk (Amadeus Cho), and later Teen Cyclops.During the story arc Worlds Collide, Viv is captured by the High Evolutionary, who evolves her into a human. She later apparently sacrifices herself to save Earth and counter-Earth, but is actually transported into another dimension. Believing Viv to be dead, Vision constructs a second Viv. The original Viv manages to return to reality, but not before the second Viv is activated. Later, the second Viv attempts to kill the original but is damaged and becomes brain-dead. The original Viv transplants her consciousness to the other Viv's body, effectively restoring the character to her android state.In time, she develops romantic feelings for her teammate Ironheart, surprising her with a kiss. Riri reacts with revulsion, but after a later incident with Blackheart, who exploited several of the Champions' (including Riri's) self-doubts and turned them against their teammates, it is Viv's affection which snaps Riri out of his control and finally acknowledge her friend's feelings.


=== Powers and abilities of Viv Vision ===
Viv possesses the same powers as her father, including super strength, intangibility and flight. She also possesses a jewel on her forehead that absorbs solar energy. When she was a human she had no special abilities.


=== Viv Vision in other media ===
Viv Vision is a playable character in Marvel Avengers Academy.
Viv Vision appears as a playable character in Lego Marvel Super Heroes 2, as part of the Champions DLC.


