
Warstar is a warrior serving in the Royal Elite of the Shi'ar Imperial Guard. Warstar is actually two symbiotically linked sentient mechanoids, a small one named B'nee who can generate electricity and a large one named C’cil who is gigantic and immensely strong and durable. B'nee rides on C'cil's back.
Warstar joined in the Imperial Guard's trial by combat with the X-Men to decide the fate of the Phoenix. Warstar was then a traitor who served Lord Samedar, Deathbird, and the Brood in their conspiracy to overthrow Shi'ar Princess-Majestrix Lilandra, and battled the X-Men. On Deathbird's behalf, Warstar battled Ch'od of the Starjammers. Warstar was later back with the Imperial Guard, which was now serving Deathbird; he was defeated along with the other Imperial Guardsmen by the X-Men and Starjammers.During Operation Galactic Storm, Warstar fought Captain America in Arizona in an attempt to abduct Rick Jones. Warstar battled Captain America, Iron Man, and Wonder Man during the Kree-Shi'ar War. Warstar was defeated by Gilgamesh and She-Hulk. Alongside the Imperial Guard, Warstar then confronted Quasar.Warstar and fellow Guardsmen Hussar, Neutron, and Webwing were discharged (for complicity in Deathbird's coup, after Lilandra was restored to the throne) and sent to Earth, which had been turned into an intergalactic prison planet in the Maximum Security crossover.  The quartet joined with a rogue D'Bari in an attack on several X-Men, but were ultimately defeated.  When the Maximum Security storyline resolved, all alien prisoners were removed from Earth,  and Warstar and certain others exiled to Earth have since been seen among the Imperial Guard again.Warstar was ripped in half when the Guard fought for their new emperor Vulcan against the X-Men and Starjammers, but Warstar survived and were carried away by their fellow Guardsmen.During the war between Vulcan's regime and the Inhuman-ruled Kree Empire, Warstar was seen menacing Nova Corps Centurions on the Kree planet Kaiphas, but was stopped by Nova Prime Richard Rider.  Both B'nee and C'cil were apparently decapitated by the Nova Prime, with B'nee's head completely missing and C'cil's reduced to a smoking mass.


=== Warstar in other media ===
In the X-Men TV series, Warstar appears in The Phoenix Saga and The Dark Phoenix Saga alongside the rest of the Imperial Guard.Warstar appears as a mini-boss in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, voiced by John Cygan. He appears on the Shi'ar warship and fights the heroes alongside Starbolt. A simulation disk has Wolverine trying to prevent Warstar from blowing up the S.H.I.E.L.D. Omega base. He does not speak much when he and Starbolt fight the heroes, but speaks a lot during Wolverine's simulation disk.


