
Hunter the White Wolf is the name of a fictional character in Marvel Comics. The character, created by Christopher Priest and Mark Texeira, first appeared in Black Panther vol. 3 #4 (February 1999).After his parents' death in a plane crash in Wakanda, Hunter was adopted by king T'Chaka. Being a foreigner and he is white, Hunter was viewed with suspicion and even contempt by the cautious Wakandans. Despite this, he developed a true love for Wakanda as one of his adopted homeland's staunchest patriots. After T'Challa's birth, Hunter knew he would never ascend to the throne. Feeling cheated, he developed a deep jealousy for his adopted brother. In an attempt to upstage T'Challa, Hunter drove himself to be the best Wakandan possible. It was this fervor that led to T'Chaka appointing Hunter as leader of the Hatut Zeraze (Wakanda's secret police) where he became known as the White Wolf. When T'Challa as king disbanded the Hatut Zeraze due to their brutality, Hunter and his loyal subordinates left Wakanda to work as mercenaries. Though resentful of this situation, Hunter still harbored a love for his adopted home country, and thus, tempered his resentment of T'Challa to aid their country when needed and served as an ally of sorts to Kasper Cole.


=== White Wolf in other media ===
White Wolf (Hunter) appears in Avengers: Black Panther's Quest, voiced by Scott Porter. This version is the adopted brother of T'Challa (who is nicknamed Whiskers by Hunter) and Shuri and a former student of N'Jadaka. Introduced in "The Panther and the Wolf", he is approached by N'Jadaka to defect. However, White Wolf obtained a list of the Shadow Council's operatives, teaming up with his foster siblings against M'Baku. In "The Good Son", White Wolf tries to steal a powerful Wakandan artifact to hide due to Black Panther working with Captain America and Helmut Zemo, but is stopped and imprisoned. But in the two-part "King Breaker", Hunter is released to help T'Challa. Helping Black Panther stop the Shadow Council from starting a war with Atlantis, White Wolf disposes of Princess Zanda's bomb and then helps Black Panther, Attuma and Iron Man work together to save Atlantis while also fighting Killmonger. White Wolf returns in "Atlantis Attacks". He rescues Black Panther from Bask's execution with Ulysses Klaue as a hostage. In retaliation of Madame Masque's technology attacking Atlantis for Bask, Lady Elanna and Tiger Shark go after the two brothers. Shuri manages to convince of Bask's self-sacrifice and Black Panther manages to make peace with Lady Elanna but White Wolf's death at Tiger Shark's hands was during the chaos. T'Challa viciously attacks Tiger Shark but relents from killing in White Wolf's memory.
White Wolf (Hunter) is a playable character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.
The White Wolf alias has been used on Bucky Barnes (portrayed by Sebastian Stan) in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, first in the 2018 film Black Panther (in the post-credits scene) and later in the 2018 film Avengers: Infinity War.


