
Wolf Cub (Nicholas Gleason) is a fictional character, mutant. The character was created by Brian K. Vaughan and Lee Ferguson, and first appeared in Chamber #1.
Gleason possesses a permanent werewolf-like form that imbues him with enhanced senses, strength, speed, agility, reflexes, coordination, balance and endurance. Additionally, Gleason possesses razor-sharp claws and fangs, a full-body coat of fur, and pointed ears.
After the deaths of his parents, Gleason was targeted by anti-mutant assassins. He was rescued by X-Men members Chamber and Cyclops, and was subsequently enrolled at the Xavier Institute. After accidentally injuring Havok, he runs away from the Institute and is invited to join a group called Dominant Species by Maximus Lobo. He declines, and later rejoins the school.
He is placed on the Paragons training squad, along with fellow students Match, Trance, Preview, DJ, and Pixie. After the squad lost their original advisor, Wolfsbane, they were assigned a new mentor, Magma. In the wake of House of M, the student population of the school was dramatically reduced, causing the squad system to be dissolved and the remaining students to be merged into one group. Gleason is one of a handful of students to retain their mutant abilities.Wolf Cub, along with Anole, Loa, Pixie, Rockslide, and Match, are told a frightening "ghost story" by their fellow student Blindfold. It soon turned out that this tale wasn't a story at all, but rather a vision of things past and of things to come. The students are transported to the dimension Limbo and attacked by a mob of demons.Wolf Cub is recruited to the Young X-Men after Cyclops intervenes in his attempts to kill Maximus Lobo, former leader of the Dominant Species and an M-Day casualty, as revenge for his manipulation of Nicholas. The team is given orders to take down the original New Mutants, who have gone rogue, and ordered to kill them if necessary. When Cyclops is revealed to actually be Donald Pierce in disguise, Nicholas is shaken by his own indiscretion when following orders and his willingness to kill Magma during their confrontation. The Young X-Men and the New Mutants engage Donald Pierce, and Wolf Cub is fatally wounded; his final words are a request that the team not kill Pierce in revenge.When the X-Men made Krakoa a mutant paradise, Wolf Cub was among the revived mutants living there.


