
Zheng Bao Yu (originally known as Fah Lo Suee and currently as the Cursed Lotus), is a supervillain who is the daughter of Zheng Zu and the older half-sister of Shang-Chi.  First appearing in Master of Kung Fu #26, she is based on the character Fah Lo Suee, created by British novelist Sax Rohmer (along with her father, the character Fu Manchu) and adapted into Marvel Comics by Doug Moench and Keith Pollard. Due to Marvel losing the rights to the Fu Manchu character, her name Fah Lo Suee was changed to Zheng Bao Yu.Born many decades ago as the daughter of the criminal mastermind Fu Manchu, Fah Lo Suee originally followed in her father's footsteps. Eventually, Fah Lo Suee became disillusioned by her father's misguided idealism for world conquest and developed a more pragmatic mindset.  After obtaining her own faction of Fu Manchu's Si Fan assassins, Fah Lo Suee would attempt to sway Shang-Chi into helping her usurp their father from his criminal empire, only to be rebuffed by her heroic half-brother.  Fah Lo Suee would eventually lead her own criminal organization, the Oriental Expeditors, who were a front for the Golden Daggers sect. After Shang-Chi and his allies bring down the Golden Daggers, she briefly allies herself with them to help take down Fu Manchu.After collaborating with British Intelligence, Fah Loh Suee was eventually placed as a director of MI-6. Her endeavors perpetually placed her at odds with Shang-Chi and his fellow MI-6 agents.
Years later, she once again became involved in the criminal underworld. Now going by the name the Cursed Lotus, she headed a narcotics empire supplying the highly addictive drug, Wild Tiger, with the Wild Tiger mob led by Deng Ling-Xiao, acting as a front for her in Hong Kong. Despite the Wild Tiger mob being brought down by Shang-Chi, she eludes capture.  Shang-Chi never discovers his half-sister's involvement.Zheng Bao Yu is recruited by Caroline le Fay, the daughter of Morgana le Fey and Doctor Doom, into Caroline's incarnation of the Doom Maidens.  Now in full control of Zheng Zu's Hai Dai assassins, she resumes her father's long-forgotten experiment of bio-engineering Brood eggs as weapons.  The Brood hatchlings from the eggs are used to carry out hits in New York's Chinatown by the Ghost Boys gang at the behest of Bao Yu.  The plot is uncovered by Misty Knight and Annabelle Riggs of the Fearless Defenders with help from Elsa Bloodstone; the three track Bao Yu and her Hai Dai assassins and scientists to an underground laboratory (where Bao Yu reveals her real name to the group).  With the help of No-Name of the Brood, the Fearless Defenders defeat the Hai-Dai and destroy the experiments, forcing Bao Yu to teleport away from her lair; she later confronts Caroline for not providing her with enough protection.  Bao Yu joins Caroline and the other Doom Maidens for a ritual to grant Caroline the powers she has been craving.  The ritual is interrupted by the Fearless Defenders, who defeat Bao Yu and the other Doom Maidens in the subsequent battle, with Frankie Raye siphoning the energy from the ritual, preventing Caroline from completing her transformation. However, Caroline still manages to succeed in the secondary ritual of restoring her mother, Morgana le Fey.


=== Powers and abilities ===
Zheng Bao Yu possesses superhuman longevity, due to her consumption of the Elixir Vitae.  Much like her father, she is a devious and cunning criminal mastermind and is a genius in most fields of knowledge, including alchemy and sorcery. As with her half-brother and father, she is also an expert hand-to-hand combatant.  Bao Yu is also hypnotically seductive: her voice and movements command attention, and her eyes can entrance a man in moments. She has easily manipulated a variety of men into falling in love with her, devoted to serving her wishes. She occasionally uses scented vapors or hypnotic rubies to further enhance her skills.


